ovn-controller(8)                 OVN Manual                 ovn-controller(8)

NAME
       ovn-controller - Open Virtual Network local controller

SYNOPSIS
       ovn-controller [options] [ovs-database]

DESCRIPTION
       ovn-controller is the local controller daemon for OVN, the Open Virtual
       Network.  It connects up to the OVN Southbound database (see ovn-sb(5))
       over the OVSDB protocol, and down to the  Open  vSwitch  database  (see
       ovs-vswitchd.conf.db(5)) over the OVSDB protocol and to ovs-vswitchd(8)
       via OpenFlow. Each hypervisor and software gateway in an OVN deployment
       runs its own independent copy of ovn-controller; thus, ovn-controller‚Äôs
       downward  connections  are machine-local and do not run over a physical
       network.

ACL LOGGING
       ACL log messages are logged through ovn-controller‚Äôs logging mechanism.
       ACL log entries have the module acl_log at log level info.  Configuring
       logging is described below in the Logging Options section.

OPTIONS
   Daemon Options
       --pidfile[=pidfile]
              Causes a file (by default, program.pid) to be created indicating
              the  PID  of the running process. If the pidfile argument is not
              specified, or if it does not begin with /, then it is created in
              .

              If --pidfile is not specified, no pidfile is created.

       --overwrite-pidfile
              By default, when --pidfile is specified and the  specified  pid‚Äê
              file already exists and is locked by a running process, the dae‚Äê
              mon refuses to start. Specify --overwrite-pidfile to cause it to
              instead overwrite the pidfile.

              When --pidfile is not specified, this option has no effect.

       --detach
              Runs  this  program  as a background process. The process forks,
              and in the child it starts a new session,  closes  the  standard
              file descriptors (which has the side effect of disabling logging
              to  the  console), and changes its current directory to the root
              (unless --no-chdir is specified). After the child completes  its
              initialization, the parent exits.

       --monitor
              Creates  an  additional  process  to monitor this program. If it
              dies due to a signal that indicates a programming  error  (SIGA‚Ä‚Äê
              BRT, SIGALRM, SIGBUS, SIGFPE, SIGILL, SIGPIPE, SIGSEGV, SIGXCPU,
              or SIGXFSZ) then the monitor process starts a new copy of it. If
              the daemon dies or exits for another reason, the monitor process
              exits.

              This  option  is  normally used with --detach, but it also func‚Äê
              tions without it.

       --no-chdir
              By default, when --detach is specified, the daemon  changes  its
              current  working  directory  to  the root directory after it de‚Äê
              taches. Otherwise, invoking the daemon from a carelessly  chosen
              directory  would  prevent  the administrator from unmounting the
              file system that holds that directory.

              Specifying --no-chdir suppresses this behavior,  preventing  the
              daemon  from changing its current working directory. This may be
              useful for collecting core files, since it is common behavior to
              write core dumps into the current working directory and the root
              directory is not a good directory to use.

              This option has no effect when --detach is not specified.

       --no-self-confinement
              By default this daemon will try to self-confine itself  to  work
              with  files  under  well-known  directories  determined at build
              time. It is better to stick with this default behavior  and  not
              to  use  this  flag  unless some other Access Control is used to
              confine daemon. Note that in contrast to  other  access  control
              implementations  that  are  typically enforced from kernel-space
              (e.g. DAC or MAC), self-confinement is imposed  from  the  user-
              space daemon itself and hence should not be considered as a full
              confinement  strategy,  but instead should be viewed as an addi‚Äê
              tional layer of security.

       --user=user:group
              Causes this program to run as  a  different  user  specified  in
              user:group,  thus  dropping  most  of the root privileges. Short
              forms user and :group are also allowed,  with  current  user  or
              group  assumed,  respectively.  Only daemons started by the root
              user accepts this argument.

              On   Linux,   daemons   will   be   granted   CAP_IPC_LOCK   and
              CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICES  before  dropping root privileges. Daemons
              that interact with a datapath, such  as  ovs-vswitchd,  will  be
              granted  three  additional  capabilities,  namely CAP_NET_ADMIN,
              CAP_NET_BROADCAST and CAP_NET_RAW. The  capability  change  will
              apply even if the new user is root.

              On Windows, this option is not currently supported. For security
              reasons,  specifying  this  option will cause the daemon process
              not to start.

   Logging Options
       -v[spec]
       --verbose=[spec]
            Sets logging levels. Without any spec,  sets  the  log  level  for
            every  module and destination to dbg. Otherwise, spec is a list of
            words separated by spaces or commas or colons, up to one from each
            category below:

            ‚Ä¢      A valid module name, as displayed by the vlog/list  command
                   on ovs-appctl(8), limits the log level change to the speci‚Äê
                   fied module.

            ‚Ä¢      syslog,  console, or file, to limit the log level change to
                   only to the system log, to the console, or to a  file,  re‚Äê
                   spectively.  (If  --detach  is specified, the daemon closes
                   its standard file descriptors, so logging  to  the  console
                   will have no effect.)

                   On  Windows  platform,  syslog is accepted as a word and is
                   only useful along with the --syslog-target option (the word
                   has no effect otherwise).

            ‚Ä¢      off, emer, err, warn, info, or  dbg,  to  control  the  log
                   level.  Messages  of  the  given severity or higher will be
                   logged, and messages of lower  severity  will  be  filtered
                   out.  off filters out all messages. See ovs-appctl(8) for a
                   definition of each log level.

            Case is not significant within spec.

            Regardless of the log levels set for file, logging to a file  will
            not take place unless --log-file is also specified (see below).

            For compatibility with older versions of OVS, any is accepted as a
            word but has no effect.

       -v
       --verbose
            Sets  the  maximum  logging  verbosity level, equivalent to --ver‚Ä‚Äê
            bose=dbg.

       -vPATTERN:destination:pattern
       --verbose=PATTERN:destination:pattern
            Sets the log pattern for destination to pattern. Refer to  ovs-ap‚Ä‚Äê
            pctl(8) for a description of the valid syntax for pattern.

       -vFACILITY:facility
       --verbose=FACILITY:facility
            Sets  the RFC5424 facility of the log message. facility can be one
            of kern, user, mail, daemon, auth, syslog, lpr, news, uucp, clock,
            ftp, ntp, audit, alert, clock2, local0,  local1,  local2,  local3,
            local4, local5, local6 or local7. If this option is not specified,
            daemon  is used as the default for the local system syslog and lo‚Ä‚Äê
            cal0 is used while sending a message to the  target  provided  via
            the --syslog-target option.

       --log-file[=file]
            Enables  logging  to a file. If file is specified, then it is used
            as the exact name for the log file. The default log file name used
            if file is omitted is /usr/local/var/log/ovn/program.log.

       --syslog-target=host:port
            Send syslog messages to UDP port on host, in addition to the  sys‚Äê
            tem  syslog.  The host must be a numerical IP address, not a host‚Äê
            name.

       --syslog-method=method
            Specify method as how syslog messages should  be  sent  to  syslog
            daemon. The following forms are supported:

            ‚Ä¢      libc,  to use the libc syslog() function. Downside of using
                   this options is that libc adds fixed prefix to  every  mes‚Äê
                   sage  before  it is actually sent to the syslog daemon over
                   /dev/log UNIX domain socket.

            ‚Ä¢      unix:file, to use a UNIX domain socket directly. It is pos‚Äê
                   sible to specify arbitrary message format with this option.
                   However, rsyslogd 8.9 and older  versions  use  hard  coded
                   parser  function anyway that limits UNIX domain socket use.
                   If you want to use  arbitrary  message  format  with  older
                   rsyslogd  versions, then use UDP socket to localhost IP ad‚Äê
                   dress instead.

            ‚Ä¢      udp:ip:port, to use a UDP socket. With this  method  it  is
                   possible  to  use  arbitrary message format also with older
                   rsyslogd. When sending syslog messages over UDP socket  ex‚Äê
                   tra precaution needs to be taken into account, for example,
                   syslog daemon needs to be configured to listen on the spec‚Äê
                   ified  UDP  port, accidental iptables rules could be inter‚Äê
                   fering with local syslog traffic and there are  some  secu‚Äê
                   rity  considerations  that apply to UDP sockets, but do not
                   apply to UNIX domain sockets.

            ‚Ä¢      null, to discard all messages logged to syslog.

            The default is taken from the OVS_SYSLOG_METHOD environment  vari‚Äê
            able; if it is unset, the default is libc.

   PKI Options
       PKI  configuration  is required in order to use SSL for the connections
       to the Northbound and Southbound databases.

              -p privkey.pem
              --private-key=privkey.pem
                   Specifies a PEM file containing the  private  key  used  as
                   identity for outgoing SSL connections.

              -c cert.pem
              --certificate=cert.pem
                   Specifies  a  PEM file containing a certificate that certi‚Äê
                   fies the private key specified on -p or --private-key to be
                   trustworthy. The certificate must be signed by the certifi‚Äê
                   cate authority (CA) that the peer in SSL  connections  will
                   use to verify it.

              -C cacert.pem
              --ca-cert=cacert.pem
                   Specifies a PEM file containing the CA certificate for ver‚Äê
                   ifying certificates presented to this program by SSL peers.
                   (This  may  be  the  same certificate that SSL peers use to
                   verify the certificate specified on -c or --certificate, or
                   it may be a different one, depending on the PKI  design  in
                   use.)

              -C none
              --ca-cert=none
                   Disables  verification  of  certificates  presented  by SSL
                   peers. This introduces a security risk,  because  it  means
                   that  certificates  cannot be verified to be those of known
                   trusted hosts.

              --bootstrap-ca-cert=cacert.pem
                     When cacert.pem exists, this option has the  same  effect
                     as  -C  or --ca-cert. If it does not exist, then the exe‚Äê
                     cutable will attempt to obtain the  CA  certificate  from
                     the  SSL  peer on its first SSL connection and save it to
                     the named PEM file. If it is successful, it will  immedi‚Äê
                     ately drop the connection and reconnect, and from then on
                     all  SSL  connections must be authenticated by a certifi‚Äê
                     cate signed by the CA certificate thus obtained.

                     This option exposes the SSL connection to  a  man-in-the-
                     middle  attack  obtaining the initial CA certificate, but
                     it may be useful for bootstrapping.

                     This option is only useful if the SSL peer sends  its  CA
                     certificate as part of the SSL certificate chain. The SSL
                     protocol  does not require the server to send the CA cer‚Äê
                     tificate.

                     This option is mutually exclusive with -C and --ca-cert.

              --peer-ca-cert=peer-cacert.pem
                     Specifies a PEM file that contains one or more additional
                     certificates to send to SSL peers. peer-cacert.pem should
                     be the CA certificate used to sign the program‚Äôs own cer‚Äê
                     tificate, that is, the certificate  specified  on  -c  or
                     --certificate.  If  the  program‚Äôs  certificate  is self-
                     signed,  then  --certificate  and  --peer-ca-cert  should
                     specify the same file.

                     This  option  is  not useful in normal operation, because
                     the SSL peer must already have the CA certificate for the
                     peer to have any confidence in  the  program‚Äôs  identity.
                     However,  this  offers  a  way  for a new installation to
                     bootstrap the CA certificate on its first SSL connection.

   Other Options
       -h
       --help
            Prints a brief help message to the console.

       -V
       --version
            Prints version information to the console.

CONFIGURATION
       ovn-controller retrieves most of its configuration information from the
       local Open vSwitch‚Äôs ovsdb-server instance.  The  default  location  is
       db.sock in the local Open vSwitch‚Äôs "run" directory. It may be overrid‚Äê
       den  by specifying the ovs-database argument as an OVSDB active or pas‚Äê
       sive connection method, as described in ovsdb(7).

       ovn-controller assumes it gets configuration information from the  fol‚Äê
       lowing keys in the Open_vSwitch table of the local OVS instance:

              external_ids:system-id
                     The  chassis  name  to use in the Chassis table. Changing
                     the system-id while ovn-controller is running is not  di‚Äê
                     rectly  supported.  Users  have two options: either first
                     gracefully stop ovn-controller  or  manually  delete  the
                     stale  Chassis and Chassis_Private records after changing
                     the system-id. Note that the chassis  name  can  also  be
                     provided via the system-id-override file in the local OVN
                     "etc"  directory  or  via the -n command-line option. The
                     following precedence is used: first, the command-line op‚Äê
                     tion is read; if not present, the system-id-override file
                     is read; if not present, then the name configured in  the
                     database is used.

              external_ids:hostname
                     The hostname to use in the Chassis table.

              external_ids:ovn-bridge
                     The  integration  bridge  to  which logical ports are at‚Äê
                     tached. The default is br-int. If this  bridge  does  not
                     exist  when ovn-controller starts, it will be created au‚Äê
                     tomatically with the default configuration  suggested  in
                     ovn-architecture(7).  When  more than one controllers are
                     running on the same  host,  external_ids:ovn-bridge-CHAS‚Ä‚Äê
                     SIS_NAME  should  be  set for each of them, pointing to a
                     unique bridge. This  is  required  to  avoid  controllers
                     stepping on each others‚Äô feet.

              external_ids:ovn-bridge-datapath-type
                     This configuration is optional. If set, then the datapath
                     type of the integration bridge will be set to the config‚Äê
                     ured  value.  If  this  option  is not set, then ovn-con‚Ä‚Äê
                     troller will not modify the existing datapath-type of the
                     integration bridge.

              external_ids:ovn-remote
                     The OVN database that this system should connect  to  for
                     its  configuration,  in  one of the same forms documented
                     above for the ovs-database.

              external_ids:ovn-monitor-all
                     A boolean value that tells if ovn-controller should moni‚Äê
                     tor all records of tables  in  ovs-database.  If  set  to
                     false,  it will conditionally monitor the records that is
                     needed in the current chassis.

                     It is more efficient to set it to true in use cases where
                     the chassis would anyway need  to  monitor  most  of  the
                     records  in OVN Southbound database, which would save the
                     overhead of conditions processing, especially for  server
                     side. Typically, set it to true for environments that all
                     workloads need to be reachable from each other.

                     NOTE:  for efficiency and scalability in common scenarios
                     ovn-controller  unconditionally  monitors  all  sub-ports
                     (ports  with parent_port set) regardless of the ovn-moni‚Ä‚Äê
                     tor-all value.

                     Default value is false.

              external_ids:ovn-remote-probe-interval
                     The inactivity probe interval of the  connection  to  the
                     OVN  database,  in milliseconds. If the value is zero, it
                     disables the connection keepalive feature.

                     If the value is nonzero, then it  will  be  forced  to  a
                     value of at least 1000 ms.

              external_ids:ovn-encap-type
                     The  encapsulation type that a chassis should use to con‚Äê
                     nect to this node. Multiple encapsulation  types  may  be
                     specified with a comma-separated list. Each listed encap‚Äê
                     sulation type will be paired with ovn-encap-ip.

                     Supported  tunnel  types  for  connecting hypervisors and
                     gateways are geneve, vxlan, and stt.

                     Due to the limited amount of metadata in vxlan, the capa‚Äê
                     bilities and performance of connected gateways and hyper‚Äê
                     visors will be reduced versus other tunnel formats.

              external_ids:ovn-encap-ip
                     The IP address that a chassis should use  to  connect  to
                     this  node  using encapsulation types specified by exter‚Ä‚Äê
                     nal_ids:ovn-encap-type. Multiple encapsulation IPs may be
                     specified with a comma-separated list.

                     In  scenarios  where  multiple  encapsulation   IPs   are
                     present, distinct tunnels are established for each remote
                     chassis.  These  tunnels  are  differentiated  by setting
                     unique options:local_ip and options:remote_ip  values  in
                     the tunnel interface. When transmitting a packet to a re‚Äê
                     mote  chassis, the selection of local_ip is guided by the
                     Interface:external_ids:encap-ip  from  the  local  OVSDB,
                     corresponding to the VIF originating the packet, if spec‚Äê
                     ified. The Interface:external_ids:encap-ip setting of the
                     VIF  is  also  populated to the Port_Binding table in the
                     OVN SB database via the encap column. Consequently,  when
                     a remote chassis needs to send a packet to a port-binding
                     associated with this VIF, it utilizes the tunnel with the
                     appropriate  options:remote_ip  that  matches  the  ip in
                     Port_Binding:encap. This mechanism is particularly  bene‚Äê
                     ficial for chassis with multiple physical interfaces des‚Äê
                     ignated  for tunneling, where each interface is optimized
                     for handling specific traffic associated with  particular
                     VIFs.

              external_ids:ovn-encap-df_default
                     indicates  the  DF flag handling of the encapulation. Set
                     to true to set the DF flag for new data paths or false to
                     clear the DF flag.

              external_ids:ovn-bridge-mappings
                     A list of key-value pairs that  map  a  physical  network
                     name  to a local ovs bridge that provides connectivity to
                     that network. An example value mapping two physical  net‚Äê
                     work   names   to   two   ovs  bridges  would  be:  phys‚Ä‚Äê
                     net1:br-eth0,physnet2:br-eth1.

              external_ids:ovn-encap-csum
                     ovn-encap-csum indicates that encapsulation checksums can
                     be transmitted and received with reasonable  performance.
                     It is a hint to senders transmitting data to this chassis
                     that  they  should use checksums to protect OVN metadata.
                     Set to true to enable or false to disable.  Depending  on
                     the  capabilities of the network interface card, enabling
                     encapsulation checksum may  incur  performance  loss.  In
                     such cases, encapsulation checksums can be disabled.

              external_ids:ovn-encap-tos
                     ovn-encap-tos  indicates  the  value to be applied to OVN
                     tunnel  interface‚Äôs  option:tos  as  specified   in   the
                     Open_vSwitch  database  Interface  table. Please refer to
                     Open VSwitch Manual for details.

              external_ids:ovn-cms-options
                     A list of options that will be consumed by the CMS Plugin
                     and which specific to this particular chassis. An example
                     would be: cms_option1,cms_option2:foo.

              external_ids:ovn-transport-zones
                     The transport  zone(s)  that  this  chassis  belongs  to.
                     Transport  zones  is  a way to group different chassis so
                     that tunnels are only formed between members of the  same
                     group(s).  Multiple transport zones may be specified with
                     a comma-separated list. For example: tz1,tz2,tz3.

                     If not set, the Chassis will be considered part of a  de‚Äê
                     fault transport zone.

              external_ids:ovn-chassis-mac-mappings
                     A list of key-value pairs that map a chassis specific mac
                     to  a physical network name. An example value mapping two
                     chassis macs to two  physical  network  names  would  be:
                     physnet1:aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff,physnet2:a1:b2:c3:d4:e5:f6.
                     These  are  the  macs  that ovn-controller will replace a
                     router port mac with, if packet is going from a  distrib‚Äê
                     uted router port on vlan type logical switch.

              external_ids:ovn-is-interconn
                     The  boolean  flag indicates if the chassis is used as an
                     interconnection gateway.

              external_ids:ovn-match-northd-version
                     The boolean flag indicates  if  ovn-controller  needs  to
                     check ovn-northd version. If this flag is set to true and
                     the  ovn-northd‚Ä‚Äôs  version  (reported  in  the Southbound
                     database) doesn‚Äôt match with the ovn-controller‚Ä‚Äôs  inter‚Äê
                     nal  version, then it will stop processing the southbound
                     and local Open  vSwitch  database  changes.  The  default
                     value is considered false if this option is not defined.

              external_ids:ovn-ofctrl-wait-before-clear
                     The  time, in milliseconds, to wait before clearing flows
                     in  OVS  after  OpenFlow  connection/reconnection  during
                     ovn-controller  initialization.  The purpose of this wait
                     is to give time for ovn-controller  to  compute  the  new
                     flows  before clearing existing ones, to avoid data plane
                     down time during ovn-controller restart/upgrade at  large
                     scale environments where recomputing the flows takes more
                     than  a  few  seconds or even longer. It is difficult for
                     ovn-controller to determine when the new flows  computing
                     is  completed, because of the dynamics in the cloud envi‚Äê
                     ronments, which is why this configuration is provided for
                     users to adjust based on the scale of the environment. By
                     default, it is 0, which  means  clearing  existing  flows
                     without waiting. Not setting the value, or setting it too
                     small,  may  result  in  data  plane down time during up‚Äê
                     grade/restart, while setting it too big may result in un‚Äê
                     necessary extra control plane  latency  of  applying  new
                     changes  of  CMS during upgrade/restart. In most cases, a
                     slightly bigger value is not harmful, because  the  extra
                     control  plane latency happens only once during the Open‚Äê
                     Flow connection. To get a reasonable range of  the  value
                     setting, it is recommended to run the below commands on a
                     node in the target environment and then set this configu‚Äê
                     ration  to twice the value of Maximum shown in the output
                     of the second command.

                     ‚Ä¢      ovn-appctl -t ovn-controller inc-engine/recompute

                     ‚Ä¢      ovn-appctl   -t   ovn-controller    stopwatch/show
                            flow-generation

              external_ids:ovn-enable-lflow-cache
                     The  boolean  flag indicates if ovn-controller should en‚Äê
                     able/disable the logical flow  in-memory  cache  it  uses
                     when processing Southbound database logical flow changes.
                     By default caching is enabled.

              external_ids:ovn-limit-lflow-cache
                     When  used, this configuration value determines the maxi‚Äê
                     mum number of logical flow cache  entries  ovn-controller
                     may create when the logical flow cache is enabled. By de‚Äê
                     fault the size of the cache is unlimited.

              external_ids:ovn-memlimit-lflow-cache-kb
                     When  used, this configuration value determines the maxi‚Äê
                     mum size of the logical flow cache (in KB) ovn-controller
                     may create when the logical flow cache is enabled. By de‚Äê
                     fault the size of the cache is unlimited.

              external_ids:ovn-trim-limit-lflow-cache
                     When used, this configuration value sets the minimum num‚Äê
                     ber of entries in the logical flow  cache  starting  with
                     which  automatic memory trimming is performed. By default
                     this is set to 10000 entries.

              external_ids:ovn-trim-wmark-perc-lflow-cache
                     When used, this configuration value sets  the  percentage
                     from  the high watermark number of entries in the logical
                     flow cache under which automatic memory trimming is  per‚Äê
                     formed.  E.g., if the trim watermark percentage is set to
                     50%, automatic memory trimming happens only when the num‚Äê
                     ber of entries in the logical flow cache gets reduced  to
                     less  than  half  of the last measured high watermark. By
                     default this is set to 50.

              external_ids:ovn-trim-timeout-ms
                     When used, this configuration value specifies  the  time,
                     in milliseconds, since the last logical flow cache opera‚Äê
                     tion  after which ovn-controller performs memory trimming
                     regardless of how many entries there are in the cache. By
                     default this is set to 30000 (30 seconds).

              external_ids:ovn-set-local-ip
                     The boolean flag indicates if ovn-controller when  create
                     tunnel  ports should set local_ip parameter. Can be hepl‚Äê
                     ful to pin source outer IP for the tunnel  when  multiple
                     interfaces are used on the host for overlay traffic. This
                     is  also  useful when running multiple ovn-controller in‚Äê
                     stances on the same chassis, in which case  this  setting
                     will  guarantee  that their tunnel ports have unique con‚Äê
                     figuration and can exist in parallel.

              external_ids:garp-max-timeout-sec
                     When used, this configuration value specifies the maximum
                     timeout (in seconds) between two consecutive GARP packets
                     sent by ovn-controller. ovn-controller by  default  sends
                     just  4 GARP packets with an exponential backoff timeout.
                     Setting external_ids:garp-max-timeout-sec allows  to  cap
                     for  the  exponential  backoff  used by ovn-controller to
                     send GARPs packets.

       Most of configuration options listed above can also be set for  a  par‚Äê
       ticular  chassis  name  (see  external_ids:system-id  for more informa‚Äê
       tion). This can be achieved  by  setting  external_ids:option-[chassis]
       instead  of  external_ids:option. For example, set external_ids:ovn-en‚Ä‚Äê
       cap-ip-otherhv to use a particular IP address for  the  controller  in‚Äê
       stance  named otherhv. Name specific configuration options always over‚Äê
       ride any global options set in the database.

       Chassis-specific configuration options in the database plus the ability
       to configure the chassis name to use via the system-id-override file or
       command line allows  to  run  multiple  ovn-controller  instances  with
       unique chassis names on the same host using the same vswitchd instance.
       This  may  be useful when running a hybrid setup with more than one CMS
       managing ports on the host, or to use different datapath types  on  the
       same  host.  Make  sure you also set external_ids:ovn-set-local-ip when
       using such configuration. Also note that this ability is highly experi‚Äê
       mental and has known limitations (for example, stateful  ACLs  are  not
       supported). Use at your own risk.

       ovn-controller  reads  the following values from the Open_vSwitch data‚Äê
       base of the local OVS instance:

              datapath-type from Bridge table
                     This value is read from local OVS integration bridge  row
                     of  Bridge  table and populated in other_config:datapath-
                     type of the Chassis table in the OVN_Southbound database.

              iface-types from Open_vSwitch table
                     This value is populated  in  external_ids:iface-types  of
                     the Chassis table in the OVN_Southbound database.

              private_key, certificate, ca_cert, and bootstrap_ca_cert from
              SSL table
                     These  values provide the SSL configuration used for con‚Äê
                     necting to the OVN southbound database server when an SSL
                     connection type is  configured  via  external_ids:ovn-re‚Ä‚Äê
                     mote.  Note  that this SSL configuration can also be pro‚Äê
                     vided via command-line options, the configuration in  the
                     database takes precedence if both are present.

OPEN VSWITCH DATABASE USAGE
       ovn-controller  uses  a number of external_ids keys in the Open vSwitch
       database to keep track of ports and interfaces. For  proper  operation,
       users should not change or clear these keys:

              external_ids:ovn-chassis-id in the Port table
                     The  presence of this key identifies a tunnel port within
                     the integration bridge as one created  by  ovn-controller
                     to reach a remote chassis. Its value is the chassis ID of
                     the remote chassis.

              external_ids:ct-zone-* in the Bridge table
                     Logical  ports and gateway routers are assigned a connec‚Äê
                     tion tracking zone by ovn-controller  for  stateful  ser‚Äê
                     vices.  To  keep state across restarts of ovn-controller,
                     these keys are stored in the integration bridge‚Äôs  Bridge
                     table. The name contains a prefix of ct-zone- followed by
                     the  name  of  the  logical port or gateway router‚Äôs zone
                     key. The value for this key identifies the zone used  for
                     this port.

              external_ids:ovn-localnet-port in the Port table
                     The  presence  of this key identifies a patch port as one
                     created by  ovn-controller  to  connect  the  integration
                     bridge and another bridge to implement a localnet logical
                     port. Its value is the name of the logical port with type
                     set  to  localnet  that  the  port implements. See exter‚Ä‚Äê
                     nal_ids:ovn-bridge-mappings, above, for more information.

                     Each localnet logical port is implemented as  a  pair  of
                     patch ports, one in the integration bridge, one in a dif‚Äê
                     ferent  bridge,  with  the  same  external_ids:ovn-local‚Ä‚Äê
                     net-port value.

              external_ids:ovn-l2gateway-port in the Port table
                     The presence of this key identifies a patch port  as  one
                     created  by  ovn-controller  to  connect  the integration
                     bridge and another bridge to implement a l2gateway  logi‚Äê
                     cal  port. Its value is the name of the logical port with
                     type set to l2gateway that the port implements.  See  ex‚Ä‚Äê
                     ternal_ids:ovn-bridge-mappings,  above, for more informa‚Äê
                     tion.

                     Each l2gateway logical port is implemented as a  pair  of
                     patch ports, one in the integration bridge, one in a dif‚Äê
                     ferent  bridge,  with  the  same external_ids:ovn-l2gate‚Ä‚Äê
                     way-port value.

              external-ids:ovn-l3gateway-port in the Port table
                     This key identifies  a  patch  port  as  one  created  by
                     ovn-controller to implement a l3gateway logical port. Its
                     value  is  the  name of the logical port with type set to
                     l3gateway. This patch port is similar to the OVN  logical
                     patch  port, except that l3gateway port can only be bound
                     to a particular chassis.

              external-ids:ovn-logical-patch-port in the Port table
                     This key identifies  a  patch  port  as  one  created  by
                     ovn-controller  to  implement  an  OVN logical patch port
                     within the integration bridge. Its value is the  name  of
                     the OVN logical patch port that it implements.

              external-ids:ovn-startup-ts in the Bridge table
                     This  key  represents  the timestamp (in milliseconds) at
                     which ovn-controller process was started.

              external-ids:ovn-nb-cfg in the Bridge table
                     This   key   represents   the   last   known   OVN_South‚Ä‚Äê
                     bound.SB_Global.nb_cfg  value  for  which  all flows have
                     been successfully installed in OVS.

              external-ids:ovn-nb-cfg-ts in the Bridge table
                     This key represents the timestamp  (in  milliseconds)  of
                     the  last known OVN_Southbound.SB_Global.nb_cfg value for
                     which all flows have been successfully installed in OVS.

              external_ids:ovn-installed and external_ids:ovn-installed-ts in
              the Interface table
                     This key is set after all openflow operations correspond‚Äê
                     ing to the OVS interface  have  been  processed  by  ovs-
                     vswitchd.  At  the same time a timestamp, in milliseconds
                     since  the  epoch,  is  stored  in   external_ids:ovn-in‚Ä‚Äê
                     stalled-ts.

OVN SOUTHBOUND DATABASE USAGE
       ovn-controller  reads from much of the OVN_Southbound database to guide
       its operation. ovn-controller also writes to the following tables:

              Chassis
                     Upon startup, ovn-controller creates a row in this  table
                     to  represent its own chassis. Upon graceful termination,
                     e.g. with ovs-appctl  -t  ovn-controller  exit  (but  not
                     SIGTERM), ovn-controller removes its row.

              Encap  Upon  startup,  ovn-controller  creates  a row or rows in
                     this table that represent the  tunnel  encapsulations  by
                     which  its chassis can be reached, and points its Chassis
                     row to them. Upon  graceful  termination,  ovn-controller
                     removes these rows.

              Port_Binding
                     At  runtime,  ovn-controller  sets the chassis columns of
                     ports that are resident on its chassis to  point  to  its
                     Chassis  row,  and, conversely, clears the chassis column
                     of ports that point to its Chassis row but are no  longer
                     resident  on  its  chassis. The chassis column has a weak
                     reference type, so when ovn-controller  gracefully  exits
                     and removes its Chassis row, the database server automat‚Äê
                     ically clears any remaining references to that row.

              MAC_Binding
                     At  runtime, ovn-controller updates the MAC_Binding table
                     as instructed by  put_arp  and  put_nd  logical  actions.
                     These  changes  persist  beyond  the lifetime of ovn-con‚Ä‚Äê
                     troller.

RUNTIME MANAGEMENT COMMANDS
       ovs-appctl can send commands to a running ovn-controller  process.  The
       currently supported commands are described below.

              exit   Causes ovn-controller to gracefully terminate.

              ct-zone-list
                     Lists each local logical port and its connection tracking
                     zone.

              meter-table-list
                     Lists each meter table entry and its local meter id.

              group-table-list
                     Lists each group table entry and its local group id.

              inject-pkt microflow
                     Injects  microflow  into  the  connected Open vSwitch in‚Äê
                     stance. microflow must contain an  ingress  logical  port
                     (inport argument) that is present on the Open vSwitch in‚Äê
                     stance.

                     The  microflow  argument  describes the packet whose for‚Äê
                     warding is to be simulated, in the syntax of an OVN logi‚Äê
                     cal expression, as described  in  ovn-sb(5),  to  express
                     constraints.  The  parser  understands prerequisites; for
                     example, if the expression refers to ip4.src, there is no
                     need to explicitly state ip4 or eth.type == 0x800.

              connection-status
                     Show OVN SBDB connection status for the chassis.

              recompute
                     Trigger a full compute iteration in ovn-controller  based
                     on  the contents of the Southbound database and local OVS
                     database.

                     This command is intended to use only in the  event  of  a
                     bug  in  the  incremental  processing  engine in ovn-con‚Ä‚Äê
                     troller to avoid inconsistent states. It should therefore
                     be used with care as full recomputes are cpu intensive.

              sb-cluster-state-reset
                     Reset southbound database cluster status  when  databases
                     are destroyed and rebuilt.

                     If  all  databases in a clustered southbound database are
                     removed from disk, then the stored index of all databases
                     will be reset to zero. This will cause ovn-controller  to
                     be  unable  to  read or write to the southbound database,
                     because it will always detect the data as stale. In  such
                     a  case, run this command so that ovn-controller will re‚Äê
                     set its local index so that  it  can  interact  with  the
                     southbound database again.

              debug/delay-nb-cfg-report seconds
                     This command is used to delay ovn-controller updating the
                     nb_cfg  back  to  OVN_Southbound database. This is useful
                     when ovn-nbctl --wait=hv is used  to  measure  end-to-end
                     latency  in  a  large scale environment. See ovn-nbctl(8)
                     for more details.

              lflow-cache/flush
                     Flushes the ovn-controller logical flow cache.

              lflow-cache/show-stats
                     Displays logical flow cache statistics: enabled/disabled,
                     per cache type entry counts.

              inc-engine/show-stats
                     Display ovn-controller engine counters. For  each  engine
                     node the following counters have been added:

                     ‚Ä¢      recompute

                     ‚Ä¢      compute

                     ‚Ä¢      abort

              inc-engine/show-stats engine_node_name counter_name
                     Display  the  ovn-controller  engine  counter(s)  for the
                     specified engine_node_name. counter_name is optional  and
                     can be one of recompute, compute or abort.

              inc-engine/clear-stats
                     Reset ovn-controller engine counters.

OVN 24.03.2                     ovn-controller               ovn-controller(8)
