ovn-ic(8)                     Open vSwitch Manual                    ovn-ic(8)



NAME
       ovn-ic - Open Virtual Network interconnection controller

SYNOPSIS
       ovn-ic [options]

DESCRIPTION
       ovn-ic,  OVN  interconnection controller, is a centralized daemon which
       communicates with global interconnection databases IC_NB/IC_SB to  con‐
       figure  and  exchange  data  with  local NB/SB for interconnecting with
       other OVN deployments.

OPTIONS
       --ovnnb-db=database
              The OVSDB database containing the OVN  Northbound  Database.  If
              the  OVN_NB_DB environment variable is set, its value is used as
              the default. Otherwise, the default is unix:/ovnnb_db.sock.

       --ovnsb-db=database
              The OVSDB database containing the OVN  Southbound  Database.  If
              the  OVN_SB_DB environment variable is set, its value is used as
              the default. Otherwise, the default is unix:/ovnsb_db.sock.

       --ic-nb-db=database
              The OVSDB database containing the OVN Interconnection Northbound
              Database.  If  the OVN_IC_NB_DB environment variable is set, its
              value  is  used  as  the  default.  Otherwise,  the  default  is
              unix:/ovn_ic_nb_db.sock.

       --ic-sb-db=database
              The OVSDB database containing the OVN Interconnection Southbound
              Database. If the OVN_IC_SB_DB environment variable is  set,  its
              value  is  used  as  the  default.  Otherwise,  the  default  is
              unix:/ovn_ic_sb_db.sock.

       database in the above options must be an OVSDB active or  passive  con‐
       nection method, as described in ovsdb(7).

   Daemon Options
       --pidfile[=pidfile]
              Causes a file (by default, program.pid) to be created indicating
              the PID of the running process. If the pidfile argument  is  not
              specified, or if it does not begin with /, then it is created in
              .

              If --pidfile is not specified, no pidfile is created.

       --overwrite-pidfile
              By default, when --pidfile is specified and the  specified  pid‐
              file already exists and is locked by a running process, the dae‐
              mon refuses to start. Specify --overwrite-pidfile to cause it to
              instead overwrite the pidfile.

              When --pidfile is not specified, this option has no effect.

       --detach
              Runs  this  program  as a background process. The process forks,
              and in the child it starts a new session,  closes  the  standard
              file descriptors (which has the side effect of disabling logging
              to the console), and changes its current directory to  the  root
              (unless  --no-chdir is specified). After the child completes its
              initialization, the parent exits.

       --monitor
              Creates an additional process to monitor  this  program.  If  it
              dies  due  to a signal that indicates a programming error (SIGA‐
              BRT, SIGALRM, SIGBUS, SIGFPE, SIGILL, SIGPIPE, SIGSEGV, SIGXCPU,
              or SIGXFSZ) then the monitor process starts a new copy of it. If
              the daemon dies or exits for another reason, the monitor process
              exits.

              This  option  is  normally used with --detach, but it also func‐
              tions without it.

       --no-chdir
              By default, when --detach is specified, the daemon  changes  its
              current  working  directory  to  the  root  directory  after  it
              detaches. Otherwise, invoking the daemon from a carelessly  cho‐
              sen  directory  would  prevent the administrator from unmounting
              the file system that holds that directory.

              Specifying --no-chdir suppresses this behavior,  preventing  the
              daemon  from changing its current working directory. This may be
              useful for collecting core files, since it is common behavior to
              write core dumps into the current working directory and the root
              directory is not a good directory to use.

              This option has no effect when --detach is not specified.

       --no-self-confinement
              By default this daemon will try to self-confine itself  to  work
              with  files  under  well-known  directories whitelisted at build
              time. It is better to stick with this default behavior  and  not
              to  use  this  flag  unless some other Access Control is used to
              confine daemon. Note that in contrast to  other  access  control
              implementations  that  are  typically enforced from kernel-space
              (e.g. DAC or MAC), self-confinement is imposed  from  the  user-
              space daemon itself and hence should not be considered as a full
              confinement strategy, but instead should be viewed as  an  addi‐
              tional layer of security.

       --user=user:group
              Causes  this  program  to  run  as a different user specified in
              user:group, thus dropping most of  the  root  privileges.  Short
              forms  user  and  :group  are also allowed, with current user or
              group assumed, respectively. Only daemons started  by  the  root
              user accepts this argument.

              On   Linux,   daemons   will   be   granted   CAP_IPC_LOCK   and
              CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICES before dropping root  privileges.  Daemons
              that  interact  with  a  datapath, such as ovs-vswitchd, will be
              granted three  additional  capabilities,  namely  CAP_NET_ADMIN,
              CAP_NET_BROADCAST  and  CAP_NET_RAW.  The capability change will
              apply even if the new user is root.

              On Windows, this option is not currently supported. For security
              reasons,  specifying  this  option will cause the daemon process
              not to start.

   Logging Options
       -v[spec]
       --verbose=[spec]
            Sets logging levels. Without any spec,  sets  the  log  level  for
            every  module and destination to dbg. Otherwise, spec is a list of
            words separated by spaces or commas or colons, up to one from each
            category below:

            ·      A  valid module name, as displayed by the vlog/list command
                   on ovs-appctl(8), limits the log level change to the speci‐
                   fied module.

            ·      syslog,  console, or file, to limit the log level change to
                   only to the system log, to  the  console,  or  to  a  file,
                   respectively.  (If --detach is specified, the daemon closes
                   its standard file descriptors, so logging  to  the  console
                   will have no effect.)

                   On  Windows  platform,  syslog is accepted as a word and is
                   only useful along with the --syslog-target option (the word
                   has no effect otherwise).

            ·      off,  emer,  err,  warn,  info,  or dbg, to control the log
                   level. Messages of the given severity  or  higher  will  be
                   logged,  and  messages  of  lower severity will be filtered
                   out. off filters out all messages. See ovs-appctl(8) for  a
                   definition of each log level.

            Case is not significant within spec.

            Regardless  of the log levels set for file, logging to a file will
            not take place unless --log-file is also specified (see below).

            For compatibility with older versions of OVS, any is accepted as a
            word but has no effect.

       -v
       --verbose
            Sets  the  maximum  logging  verbosity level, equivalent to --ver‐
            bose=dbg.

       -vPATTERN:destination:pattern
       --verbose=PATTERN:destination:pattern
            Sets  the  log  pattern  for  destination  to  pattern.  Refer  to
            ovs-appctl(8) for a description of the valid syntax for pattern.

       -vFACILITY:facility
       --verbose=FACILITY:facility
            Sets  the RFC5424 facility of the log message. facility can be one
            of kern, user, mail, daemon, auth, syslog, lpr, news, uucp, clock,
            ftp,  ntp,  audit,  alert, clock2, local0, local1, local2, local3,
            local4, local5, local6 or local7. If this option is not specified,
            daemon  is  used  as  the  default for the local system syslog and
            local0 is used while sending a message to the target provided  via
            the --syslog-target option.

       --log-file[=file]
            Enables  logging  to a file. If file is specified, then it is used
            as the exact name for the log file. The default log file name used
            if file is omitted is /usr/local/var/log/ovn/program.log.

       --syslog-target=host:port
            Send  syslog messages to UDP port on host, in addition to the sys‐
            tem syslog. The host must be a numerical IP address, not  a  host‐
            name.

       --syslog-method=method
            Specify  method  as  how  syslog messages should be sent to syslog
            daemon. The following forms are supported:

            ·      libc, to use the libc syslog() function. Downside of  using
                   this  options  is that libc adds fixed prefix to every mes‐
                   sage before it is actually sent to the syslog  daemon  over
                   /dev/log UNIX domain socket.

            ·      unix:file, to use a UNIX domain socket directly. It is pos‐
                   sible to specify arbitrary message format with this option.
                   However,  rsyslogd  8.9  and  older versions use hard coded
                   parser function anyway that limits UNIX domain socket  use.
                   If  you  want  to  use  arbitrary message format with older
                   rsyslogd versions, then use  UDP  socket  to  localhost  IP
                   address instead.

            ·      udp:ip:port,  to  use  a UDP socket. With this method it is
                   possible to use arbitrary message format  also  with  older
                   rsyslogd.  When  sending  syslog  messages  over UDP socket
                   extra precaution needs to be taken into account, for  exam‐
                   ple,  syslog daemon needs to be configured to listen on the
                   specified UDP port,  accidental  iptables  rules  could  be
                   interfering  with  local  syslog traffic and there are some
                   security considerations that apply to UDP sockets,  but  do
                   not apply to UNIX domain sockets.

            ·      null, to discard all messages logged to syslog.

            The  default is taken from the OVS_SYSLOG_METHOD environment vari‐
            able; if it is unset, the default is libc.

   PKI Options
       PKI configuration is required in order to use SSL for  the  connections
       to the Northbound and Southbound databases.

              -p privkey.pem
              --private-key=privkey.pem
                   Specifies  a  PEM  file  containing the private key used as
                   identity for outgoing SSL connections.

              -c cert.pem
              --certificate=cert.pem
                   Specifies a PEM file containing a certificate  that  certi‐
                   fies the private key specified on -p or --private-key to be
                   trustworthy. The certificate must be signed by the certifi‐
                   cate  authority  (CA) that the peer in SSL connections will
                   use to verify it.

              -C cacert.pem
              --ca-cert=cacert.pem
                   Specifies a PEM file containing the CA certificate for ver‐
                   ifying certificates presented to this program by SSL peers.
                   (This may be the same certificate that  SSL  peers  use  to
                   verify the certificate specified on -c or --certificate, or
                   it may be a different one, depending on the PKI  design  in
                   use.)

              -C none
              --ca-cert=none
                   Disables  verification  of  certificates  presented  by SSL
                   peers. This introduces a security risk,  because  it  means
                   that  certificates  cannot be verified to be those of known
                   trusted hosts.

   Other Options
       --unixctl=socket
              Sets the name of the control socket on which program listens for
              runtime  management  commands  (see RUNTIME MANAGEMENT COMMANDS,
              below). If socket does not begin with /, it  is  interpreted  as
              relative  to  .  If  --unixctl  is  not used at all, the default
              socket is /program.pid.ctl, where pid is program’s process ID.

              On Windows a local named pipe is used to listen for runtime man‐
              agement  commands.  A  file  is  created in the absolute path as
              pointed by socket or if --unixctl is not used at all, a file  is
              created  as  program in the configured OVS_RUNDIR directory. The
              file exists just to mimic the behavior of a Unix domain socket.

              Specifying none for socket disables the control socket feature.



       -h
       --help
            Prints a brief help message to the console.

       -V
       --version
            Prints version information to the console.

RUNTIME MANAGEMENT COMMANDS
       ovs-appctl can send commands to a running ovn-ic process. The currently
       supported commands are described below.

              exit   Causes ovn-ic to gracefully terminate.

              pause  Pauses  the ovn-ic operation from processing any database
                     changes. This will also instruct ovn-ic to drop any  lock
                     on SB DB.

              resume Resumes  the  ovn-ic  operation  to process database con‐
                     tents. This will also instruct ovn-northd to  aspire  for
                     the lock on SB DB.

              is-paused
                     Returns  "true"  if  ovn-ic  is currently paused, "false"
                     otherwise.

              status Prints this server’s status. Status will be  "active"  if
                     ovn-ic  has acquired OVSDB lock on SB DB, "standby" if it
                     has not or "paused" if this instance is paused.

ACTIVE-STANDBY FOR HIGH AVAILABILITY
       You may run ovn-ic more than once in an OVN deployment. When  connected
       to  a  standalone  or clustered DB setup, OVN will automatically ensure
       that only one of them is active at a time.  If  multiple  instances  of
       ovn-ic  are running and the active ovn-ic fails, one of the hot standby
       instances of ovn-ic will automatically take over.



Open vSwitch 20.03.90               ovn-ic                           ovn-ic(8)
