ovn-controller(8)                 OVN Manual                 ovn-controller(8)

NAME
       ovn-controller - Open Virtual Network local controller

SYNOPSIS
       ovn-controller [options] [ovs-database]

DESCRIPTION
       ovn-controller is the local controller daemon for OVN, the Open Virtual
       Network.  It connects up to the OVN Southbound database (see ovn-sb(5))
       over the OVSDB protocol, and down to the  Open  vSwitch  database  (see
       ovs-vswitchd.conf.db(5)) over the OVSDB protocol and to ovs-vswitchd(8)
       via OpenFlow. Each hypervisor and software gateway in an OVN deployment
       runs its own independent copy of ovn-controller; thus, ovn-controller‚Äôs
       downward  connections  are machine-local and do not run over a physical
       network.

ACL LOGGING
       ACL log messages are logged through ovn-controller‚Äôs logging mechanism.
       ACL log entries have the module acl_log at log level info.  Configuring
       logging is described below in the Logging Options section.

OPTIONS
   Daemon Options
       --pidfile[=pidfile]
              Causes a file (by default, program.pid) to be created indicating
              the  PID  of the running process. If the pidfile argument is not
              specified, or if it does not begin with /, then it is created in
              .

              If --pidfile is not specified, no pidfile is created.

       --overwrite-pidfile
              By default, when --pidfile is specified and the  specified  pid‚Äê
              file already exists and is locked by a running process, the dae‚Äê
              mon refuses to start. Specify --overwrite-pidfile to cause it to
              instead overwrite the pidfile.

              When --pidfile is not specified, this option has no effect.

       --detach
              Runs  this  program  as a background process. The process forks,
              and in the child it starts a new session,  closes  the  standard
              file descriptors (which has the side effect of disabling logging
              to  the  console), and changes its current directory to the root
              (unless --no-chdir is specified). After the child completes  its
              initialization, the parent exits.

       --monitor
              Creates  an  additional  process  to monitor this program. If it
              dies due to a signal that indicates a programming  error  (SIGA‚Ä‚Äê
              BRT, SIGALRM, SIGBUS, SIGFPE, SIGILL, SIGPIPE, SIGSEGV, SIGXCPU,
              or SIGXFSZ) then the monitor process starts a new copy of it. If
              the daemon dies or exits for another reason, the monitor process
              exits.

              This  option  is  normally used with --detach, but it also func‚Äê
              tions without it.

       --no-chdir
              By default, when --detach is specified, the daemon  changes  its
              current  working  directory  to  the root directory after it de‚Äê
              taches. Otherwise, invoking the daemon from a carelessly  chosen
              directory  would  prevent  the administrator from unmounting the
              file system that holds that directory.

              Specifying --no-chdir suppresses this behavior,  preventing  the
              daemon  from changing its current working directory. This may be
              useful for collecting core files, since it is common behavior to
              write core dumps into the current working directory and the root
              directory is not a good directory to use.

              This option has no effect when --detach is not specified.

       --no-self-confinement
              By default this daemon will try to self-confine itself  to  work
              with  files  under  well-known  directories  determined at build
              time. It is better to stick with this default behavior  and  not
              to  use  this  flag  unless some other Access Control is used to
              confine daemon. Note that in contrast to  other  access  control
              implementations  that  are  typically enforced from kernel-space
              (e.g. DAC or MAC), self-confinement is imposed  from  the  user-
              space daemon itself and hence should not be considered as a full
              confinement  strategy,  but instead should be viewed as an addi‚Äê
              tional layer of security.

       --user=user:group
              Causes this program to run as  a  different  user  specified  in
              user:group,  thus  dropping  most  of the root privileges. Short
              forms user and :group are also allowed,  with  current  user  or
              group  assumed,  respectively.  Only daemons started by the root
              user accepts this argument.

              On   Linux,   daemons   will   be   granted   CAP_IPC_LOCK   and
              CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICES  before  dropping root privileges. Daemons
              that interact with a datapath, such  as  ovs-vswitchd,  will  be
              granted  three  additional  capabilities,  namely CAP_NET_ADMIN,
              CAP_NET_BROADCAST and CAP_NET_RAW. The  capability  change  will
              apply even if the new user is root.

              On Windows, this option is not currently supported. For security
              reasons,  specifying  this  option will cause the daemon process
              not to start.

   Logging Options
       -v[spec]
       --verbose=[spec]
            Sets logging levels. Without any spec,  sets  the  log  level  for
            every  module and destination to dbg. Otherwise, spec is a list of
            words separated by spaces or commas or colons, up to one from each
            category below:

            ‚Ä¢      A valid module name, as displayed by the vlog/list  command
                   on ovs-appctl(8), limits the log level change to the speci‚Äê
                   fied module.

            ‚Ä¢      syslog,  console, or file, to limit the log level change to
                   only to the system log, to the console, or to a  file,  re‚Äê
                   spectively.  (If  --detach  is specified, the daemon closes
                   its standard file descriptors, so logging  to  the  console
                   will have no effect.)

                   On  Windows  platform,  syslog is accepted as a word and is
                   only useful along with the --syslog-target option (the word
                   has no effect otherwise).

            ‚Ä¢      off, emer, err, warn, info, or  dbg,  to  control  the  log
                   level.  Messages  of  the  given severity or higher will be
                   logged, and messages of lower  severity  will  be  filtered
                   out.  off filters out all messages. See ovs-appctl(8) for a
                   definition of each log level.

            Case is not significant within spec.

            Regardless of the log levels set for file, logging to a file  will
            not take place unless --log-file is also specified (see below).

            For compatibility with older versions of OVS, any is accepted as a
            word but has no effect.

       -v
       --verbose
            Sets  the  maximum  logging  verbosity level, equivalent to --ver‚Ä‚Äê
            bose=dbg.

       -vPATTERN:destination:pattern
       --verbose=PATTERN:destination:pattern
            Sets the log pattern for destination to pattern. Refer to  ovs-ap‚Ä‚Äê
            pctl(8) for a description of the valid syntax for pattern.

       -vFACILITY:facility
       --verbose=FACILITY:facility
            Sets  the RFC5424 facility of the log message. facility can be one
            of kern, user, mail, daemon, auth, syslog, lpr, news, uucp, clock,
            ftp, ntp, audit, alert, clock2, local0,  local1,  local2,  local3,
            local4, local5, local6 or local7. If this option is not specified,
            daemon  is used as the default for the local system syslog and lo‚Ä‚Äê
            cal0 is used while sending a message to the  target  provided  via
            the --syslog-target option.

       --log-file[=file]
            Enables  logging  to a file. If file is specified, then it is used
            as the exact name for the log file. The default log file name used
            if file is omitted is /usr/local/var/log/ovn/program.log.

       --syslog-target=host:port
            Send syslog messages to UDP port on host, in addition to the  sys‚Äê
            tem  syslog.  The host must be a numerical IP address, not a host‚Äê
            name.

       --syslog-method=method
            Specify method as how syslog messages should  be  sent  to  syslog
            daemon. The following forms are supported:

            ‚Ä¢      libc,  to use the libc syslog() function. Downside of using
                   this options is that libc adds fixed prefix to  every  mes‚Äê
                   sage  before  it is actually sent to the syslog daemon over
                   /dev/log UNIX domain socket.

            ‚Ä¢      unix:file, to use a UNIX domain socket directly. It is pos‚Äê
                   sible to specify arbitrary message format with this option.
                   However, rsyslogd 8.9 and older  versions  use  hard  coded
                   parser  function anyway that limits UNIX domain socket use.
                   If you want to use  arbitrary  message  format  with  older
                   rsyslogd  versions, then use UDP socket to localhost IP ad‚Äê
                   dress instead.

            ‚Ä¢      udp:ip:port, to use a UDP socket. With this  method  it  is
                   possible  to  use  arbitrary message format also with older
                   rsyslogd. When sending syslog messages over UDP socket  ex‚Äê
                   tra precaution needs to be taken into account, for example,
                   syslog daemon needs to be configured to listen on the spec‚Äê
                   ified  UDP  port, accidental iptables rules could be inter‚Äê
                   fering with local syslog traffic and there are  some  secu‚Äê
                   rity  considerations  that apply to UDP sockets, but do not
                   apply to UNIX domain sockets.

            ‚Ä¢      null, to discard all messages logged to syslog.

            The default is taken from the OVS_SYSLOG_METHOD environment  vari‚Äê
            able; if it is unset, the default is libc.

   PKI Options
       PKI  configuration  is required in order to use SSL/TLS for the connec‚Äê
       tions to the Northbound and Southbound databases.

              -p privkey.pem
              --private-key=privkey.pem
                   Specifies a PEM file containing the  private  key  used  as
                   identity for outgoing SSL/TLS connections.

              -c cert.pem
              --certificate=cert.pem
                   Specifies  a  PEM file containing a certificate that certi‚Äê
                   fies the private key specified on -p or --private-key to be
                   trustworthy. The certificate must be signed by the certifi‚Äê
                   cate authority (CA) that the peer  in  SSL/TLS  connections
                   will use to verify it.

              -C cacert.pem
              --ca-cert=cacert.pem
                   Specifies a PEM file containing the CA certificate for ver‚Äê
                   ifying  certificates  presented  to this program by SSL/TLS
                   peers. (This may be the same certificate that SSL/TLS peers
                   use to verify the certificate specified on -c or --certifi‚Ä‚Äê
                   cate, or it may be a different one, depending  on  the  PKI
                   design in use.)

              -C none
              --ca-cert=none
                   Disables  verification of certificates presented by SSL/TLS
                   peers. This introduces a security risk,  because  it  means
                   that  certificates  cannot be verified to be those of known
                   trusted hosts.

              --ssl-server-name=servername
                   Specifies the server name to use for TLS Server Name  Indi‚Äê
                   cation  (SNI). By default, the hostname from the connection
                   string is used for SNI. This option allows  overriding  the
                   SNI hostname, which is useful when connecting through prox‚Äê
                   ies or service meshes where the connection endpoint differs
                   from the intended server name.

              --bootstrap-ca-cert=cacert.pem
                     When  cacert.pem  exists, this option has the same effect
                     as -C or --ca-cert. If it does not exist, then  the  exe‚Äê
                     cutable  will  attempt  to obtain the CA certificate from
                     the SSL/TLS peer on its first SSL/TLS connection and save
                     it to the named PEM file. If it is  successful,  it  will
                     immediately  drop  the connection and reconnect, and from
                     then on all SSL/TLS connections must be authenticated  by
                     a certificate signed by the CA certificate thus obtained.

                     This  option  exposes the SSL/TLS connection to a man-in-
                     the-middle attack obtaining the initial  CA  certificate,
                     but it may be useful for bootstrapping.

                     This  option is only useful if the SSL/TLS peer sends its
                     CA certificate as part of the SSL/TLS certificate  chain.
                     SSL/TLS  protocols  do not require the server to send the
                     CA certificate.

                     This option is mutually exclusive with -C and --ca-cert.

              --peer-ca-cert=peer-cacert.pem
                     Specifies a PEM file that contains one or more additional
                     certificates to send to  SSL/TLS  peers.  peer-cacert.pem
                     should  be  the CA certificate used to sign the program‚Äôs
                     own certificate, that is, the certificate specified on -c
                     or --certificate. If the program‚Äôs certificate  is  self-
                     signed,  then  --certificate  and  --peer-ca-cert  should
                     specify the same file.

                     This option is not useful in  normal  operation,  because
                     the SSL/TLS peer must already have the CA certificate for
                     the  peer  to  have any confidence in the program‚Äôs iden‚Äê
                     tity. However, this offers a way for a  new  installation
                     to bootstrap the CA certificate on its first SSL/TLS con‚Äê
                     nection.

   Other Options
       --unixctl=socket
              Sets the name of the control socket on which program listens for
              runtime  management  commands  (see RUNTIME MANAGEMENT COMMANDS,
              below). If socket does not begin with /, it  is  interpreted  as
              relative  to  .  If  --unixctl  is  not used at all, the default
              socket is /program.pid.ctl, where pid is program‚Äôs process ID.

              On Windows a local named pipe is used to listen for runtime man‚Äê
              agement commands. A file is created  in  the  absolute  path  as
              pointed  by socket or if --unixctl is not used at all, a file is
              created as program in the configured OVS_RUNDIR  directory.  The
              file exists just to mimic the behavior of a Unix domain socket.

              Specifying none for socket disables the control socket feature.



       -h
       --help
            Prints a brief help message to the console.

       -V
       --version
            Prints version information to the console.

CONFIGURATION
       ovn-controller retrieves most of its configuration information from the
       local  Open  vSwitch‚Äôs  ovsdb-server  instance. The default location is
       db.sock in the local Open vSwitch‚Äôs "run" directory. It may be overrid‚Äê
       den by specifying the ovs-database argument as an OVSDB active or  pas‚Äê
       sive connection method, as described in ovsdb(7).

       ovn-controller  assumes it gets configuration information from the fol‚Äê
       lowing keys in the Open_vSwitch table of the local OVS instance:

              external_ids:system-id
                     The chassis name to use in the  Chassis  table.  Changing
                     the  system-id while ovn-controller is running is not di‚Äê
                     rectly supported. Users have two  options:  either  first
                     gracefully  stop  ovn-controller  or  manually delete the
                     stale Chassis and Chassis_Private records after  changing
                     the  system-id.  Note  that  the chassis name can also be
                     provided via the system-id-override file in the local OVN
                     "etc" directory or via the -n  command-line  option.  The
                     following precedence is used: first, the command-line op‚Äê
                     tion is read; if not present, the system-id-override file
                     is  read; if not present, then the name configured in the
                     database is used.

              external_ids:hostname
                     The hostname to use in the Chassis table.

              external_ids:ovn-bridge
                     The integration bridge to which  logical  ports  are  at‚Äê
                     tached.  The  default  is br-int. If this bridge does not
                     exist when ovn-controller starts, it will be created  au‚Äê
                     tomatically  with  the default configuration suggested in
                     ovn-architecture(7). When more than one  controllers  are
                     running  on  the same host, external_ids:ovn-bridge-CHAS‚Ä‚Äê
                     SIS_NAME should be set for each of them,  pointing  to  a
                     unique  bridge.  This  is  required  to avoid controllers
                     stepping on each others‚Äô feet.

              external_ids:ovn-bridge-datapath-type
                     This configuration is optional. If set, then the datapath
                     type of the integration bridge will be set to the config‚Äê
                     ured value. If this option  is  not  set,  then  ovn-con‚Ä‚Äê
                     troller will not modify the existing datapath-type of the
                     integration bridge.

              external_ids:ovn-remote
                     The  OVN  database that this system should connect to for
                     its configuration, in one of the  same  forms  documented
                     above for the ovs-database.

              external_ids:ovn-monitor-all
                     A boolean value that tells if ovn-controller should moni‚Äê
                     tor  all records of tables in the OVN_Southbound. If this
                     option is set to false, ovn-controller will conditionally
                     monitor only the records that are needed  for  the  local
                     chassis.

                     It is more efficient to set it to true in use cases where
                     the  chassis  would  anyway  need  to monitor most of the
                     records in the OVN_Southbound database, which would  save
                     the  overhead  of  conditions  processing, especially for
                     server side. Typically, set it to true  for  environments
                     where all workloads need to be reachable from each other.

                     NOTE:  for efficiency and scalability in common scenarios
                     ovn-controller  unconditionally  monitors  all  sub-ports
                     (ports  with parent_port set) regardless of the ovn-moni‚Ä‚Äê
                     tor-all value.

                     Default value is false.

              external_ids:ovn-remote-probe-interval
                     The inactivity probe interval of the  connection  to  the
                     OVN  database,  in milliseconds. If the value is zero, it
                     disables the connection keepalive feature.

                     If the value is nonzero, then it  will  be  forced  to  a
                     value of at least 1000 ms.

              external_ids:ovn-encap-type
                     The  encapsulation type that a chassis should use to con‚Äê
                     nect to this node. Multiple encapsulation  types  may  be
                     specified with a comma-separated list. Each listed encap‚Äê
                     sulation type will be paired with ovn-encap-ip.

                     Supported  tunnel  types  for  connecting hypervisors and
                     gateways are geneve and vxlan.

                     Due to the limited amount of metadata in vxlan, the capa‚Äê
                     bilities and performance of connected gateways and hyper‚Äê
                     visors will be reduced versus other tunnel formats.

              external_ids:ovn-encap-ip
                     The IP address that a chassis should use  to  connect  to
                     this  node  using encapsulation types specified by exter‚Ä‚Äê
                     nal_ids:ovn-encap-type. Multiple encapsulation IPs may be
                     specified with a comma-separated list.

                     In  scenarios  where  multiple  encapsulation   IPs   are
                     present, distinct tunnels are established for each remote
                     chassis.  These  tunnels  are  differentiated  by setting
                     unique options:local_ip and options:remote_ip  values  in
                     the tunnel interface. When transmitting a packet to a re‚Äê
                     mote  chassis, the selection of local_ip is guided by the
                     Interface:external_ids:encap-ip  from  the  local  OVSDB,
                     corresponding to the VIF originating the packet, if spec‚Äê
                     ified. The Interface:external_ids:encap-ip setting of the
                     VIF  is  also  populated to the Port_Binding table in the
                     OVN SB database via the encap column. Consequently,  when
                     a remote chassis needs to send a packet to a port-binding
                     associated with this VIF, it utilizes the tunnel with the
                     appropriate  options:remote_ip  that  matches  the  ip in
                     Port_Binding:encap. This mechanism is particularly  bene‚Äê
                     ficial for chassis with multiple physical interfaces des‚Äê
                     ignated  for tunneling, where each interface is optimized
                     for handling specific traffic associated with  particular
                     VIFs.

              external_ids:ovn-encap-ip-default
                     When ovn-encap-ip contains multiple IPs, this field indi‚Äê
                     cates the default one.

              external_ids:ovn-encap-df_default
                     indicates  the  DF flag handling of the encapulation. Set
                     to true to set the DF flag for new data paths or false to
                     clear the DF flag.

              external_ids:ovn-enable-flow-based-tunnels
                     The boolean flag indicates if ovn-controller  should  use
                     flow-based  tunnels  instead  of  port-based  tunnels for
                     overlay network connectivity. Default value is false.

                     Port-based tunnels (default mode) create a dedicated tun‚Äê
                     nel port for each combination of remote chassis and local
                     encap IP, while Flow-based tunnels create a single shared
                     tunnel port  for  each  tunnel  type,  and  use  OpenFlow
                     set_field  actions  to  dynamically set tunnel source and
                     destination IP addresses per packet.

                     This feature is experimental and is disabled by  default.
                     There are some known limitations to the feature:

                     ‚Ä¢      IPSec is not supported.

                     ‚Ä¢      BFD  between  tunnel  endpoints  is not supported,
                            thus HA chassis (e.g. for Distributed Gateway Port
                            redundancy) is not supported.

              external_ids:ovn-bridge-mappings
                     A list of key-value pairs that  map  a  physical  network
                     name  to a local ovs bridge that provides connectivity to
                     that network. An example value mapping two physical  net‚Äê
                     work   names   to   two   ovs  bridges  would  be:  phys‚Ä‚Äê
                     net1:br-eth0,physnet2:br-eth1.

              external_ids:ovn-encap-csum
                     ovn-encap-csum indicates that encapsulation checksums can
                     be transmitted and received with reasonable  performance.
                     It is a hint to senders transmitting data to this chassis
                     that  they  should use checksums to protect OVN metadata.
                     Set to true to enable or false to disable.  Depending  on
                     the  capabilities of the network interface card, enabling
                     encapsulation checksum may  incur  performance  loss.  In
                     such cases, encapsulation checksums can be disabled.

              external_ids:ovn-encap-tos
                     ovn-encap-tos  indicates  the  value to be applied to OVN
                     tunnel  interface‚Äôs  option:tos  as  specified   in   the
                     Open_vSwitch  database  Interface  table. Please refer to
                     Open VSwitch Manual for details.

              external_ids:ovn-cms-options
                     A list of options that will be consumed by the CMS Plugin
                     and which specific to this particular chassis. An example
                     would be: cms_option1,cms_option2:foo.

              external_ids:ovn-transport-zones
                     The transport  zone(s)  that  this  chassis  belongs  to.
                     Transport  zones  is  a way to group different chassis so
                     that tunnels are only formed between members of the  same
                     group(s).  Multiple transport zones may be specified with
                     a comma-separated list. For example: tz1,tz2,tz3.

                     If not set, the Chassis will be considered part of a  de‚Äê
                     fault transport zone.

              external_ids:ovn-chassis-mac-mappings
                     A list of key-value pairs that map a chassis specific mac
                     to  a physical network name. An example value mapping two
                     chassis macs to two  physical  network  names  would  be:
                     physnet1:aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff,physnet2:a1:b2:c3:d4:e5:f6.
                     These  are  the  macs  that ovn-controller will replace a
                     router port mac with, if packet is going from a  distrib‚Äê
                     uted router port on vlan type logical switch.

              external_ids:ovn-is-interconn
                     The  boolean  flag indicates if the chassis is used as an
                     interconnection gateway.

              external_ids:ovn-match-northd-version
                     The boolean flag indicates  if  ovn-controller  needs  to
                     check ovn-northd version. If this flag is set to true and
                     the  ovn-northd‚Ä‚Äôs  version  (reported  in  the Southbound
                     database) doesn‚Äôt match with the ovn-controller‚Ä‚Äôs  inter‚Äê
                     nal  version, then it will stop processing the southbound
                     and local Open  vSwitch  database  changes.  The  default
                     value is considered false if this option is not defined.

              external_ids:ovn-enable-lflow-cache
                     The  boolean  flag indicates if ovn-controller should en‚Äê
                     able/disable the logical flow  in-memory  cache  it  uses
                     when processing Southbound database logical flow changes.
                     By default caching is enabled.

              external_ids:ovn-limit-lflow-cache
                     When  used, this configuration value determines the maxi‚Äê
                     mum number of logical flow cache  entries  ovn-controller
                     may create when the logical flow cache is enabled. By de‚Äê
                     fault the size of the cache is unlimited.

              external_ids:ovn-memlimit-lflow-cache-kb
                     When  used, this configuration value determines the maxi‚Äê
                     mum size of the logical flow cache (in KB) ovn-controller
                     may create when the logical flow cache is enabled. By de‚Äê
                     fault the size of the cache is unlimited.

              external_ids:ovn-trim-limit-lflow-cache
                     When used, this configuration value sets the minimum num‚Äê
                     ber of entries in the logical flow  cache  starting  with
                     which  automatic memory trimming is performed. By default
                     this is set to 10000 entries.

              external_ids:ovn-trim-wmark-perc-lflow-cache
                     When used, this configuration value sets  the  percentage
                     from  the high watermark number of entries in the logical
                     flow cache under which automatic memory trimming is  per‚Äê
                     formed.  E.g., if the trim watermark percentage is set to
                     50%, automatic memory trimming happens only when the num‚Äê
                     ber of entries in the logical flow cache gets reduced  to
                     less  than  half  of the last measured high watermark. By
                     default this is set to 50.

              external_ids:ovn-trim-timeout-ms
                     When used, this configuration value specifies  the  time,
                     in milliseconds, since the last logical flow cache opera‚Äê
                     tion  after which ovn-controller performs memory trimming
                     regardless of how many entries there are in the cache. By
                     default this is set to 30000 (30 seconds).

              external_ids:garp-max-timeout-sec
                     When used, this configuration value specifies the maximum
                     timeout (in seconds) between two consecutive GARP packets
                     sent by ovn-controller. ovn-controller by  default  sends
                     just  4 GARP packets with an exponential backoff timeout.
                     Setting external_ids:garp-max-timeout-sec allows  to  cap
                     for  the  exponential  backoff  used by ovn-controller to
                     send GARPs packets.

              external_ids:arp-nd-max-timeout-sec
                     When used, this configuration value specifies the maximum
                     timeout (in seconds) between two consecutive ARP/ND pack‚Äê
                     ets sent by ovn-controller to resolve  ECMP  nexthop  mac
                     address.  ovn-controller  by  default  continuously sends
                     ARP/ND  packets.  Setting   external_ids:arp-nd-max-time‚Ä‚Äê
                     out-sec allows to cap for the exponential backoff used by
                     ovn-controller
                      to send ARPs/NDs packets.

              external_ids:ovn-bridge-remote
                     Connection  to  the  OVN management bridge in OvS. It de‚Äê
                     faults to unix:br-int.mgmt when not specified.

              external_ids:ovn-bridge-remote-probe-interval
                     The inactivity probe interval of the  connection  to  the
                     OVN  management  bridge,  in milliseconds. It defaults to
                     zero. If the value is zero, it  disables  the  inactivity
                     probe.

              external_ids:dynamic-routing-port-mapping
                     This  setting works together with the Northbound dynamic-
                     routing-port-name option on Logical_Router_Ports. See the
                     ovn-nb(5) for more details.

              external_ids:ovn-cleanup-on-exit
                     The boolean flag indicates if ovn-controller should  per‚Äê
                     form  cleanup on exit. In order to keep backward compati‚Äê
                     bility the --restart exit flag  has  priority  over  this
                     flag.

              external_ids:ovn-evpn-vxlan-ports
                     Comma  separated  list of UDP ports used as a destination
                     port for the EVPN tunnels created by this ovn-controller.
                     NOTE: this feature is experimental and may be subject  to
                     removal/change in the future.

              external_ids:ovn-evpn-local-ip
                     IP  address  list used as a source addresses for the EVPN
                     traffic leaving this OVN setup. The ovn-evpn-local-ip can
                     be specified by the CMS according to the  following  syn‚Äê
                     tax:  external_ids:ovn-evpn-local-ip=vni0-IPv4,vni1-IPv4,
                     vni1-IPv6,IPv4,IPv6, where if no VNI value is  specified,
                     OVN  will  use  the provided IP as default IP. NOTE: this
                     feature  is  experimental  and  may  be  subject  to  re‚Äê
                     moval/change in the future.

       Most  of  configuration options listed above can also be set for a par‚Äê
       ticular chassis name (see  external_ids:system-id   for  more  informa‚Äê
       tion).  This  can  be achieved by setting external_ids:option-[chassis]
       instead of external_ids:option. For example,  set  external_ids:ovn-en‚Ä‚Äê
       cap-ip-otherhv  to  use  a particular IP address for the controller in‚Äê
       stance named otherhv. Name specific configuration options always  over‚Äê
       ride any global options set in the database.

       Chassis-specific configuration options in the database plus the ability
       to configure the chassis name to use via the system-id-override file or
       command  line  allows  to  run  multiple  ovn-controller instances with
       unique chassis names on the same host using the same vswitchd instance.
       This may be useful when running a hybrid setup with more than  one  CMS
       managing  ports  on the host, or to use different datapath types on the
       same host. Also note that this ability is highly experimental  and  has
       known  limitations  (for example, stateful ACLs are not supported). Use
       at your own risk.

       ovn-controller reads the following values from the  Open_vSwitch  data‚Äê
       base of the local OVS instance:

              datapath-type from Bridge table
                     This  value is read from local OVS integration bridge row
                     of Bridge table and populated  in  other_config:datapath-
                     type of the Chassis table in the OVN_Southbound database.

              iface-types from Open_vSwitch table
                     This  value  is  populated in external_ids:iface-types of
                     the Chassis table in the OVN_Southbound database.

              private_key, certificate, ca_cert, and bootstrap_ca_cert from
              SSL table
                     These values provide the SSL/TLS configuration  used  for
                     connecting  to the OVN southbound database server when an
                     SSL/TLS  connection  type  is   configured   via   exter‚Ä‚Äê
                     nal_ids:ovn-remote.  Note that this SSL/TLS configuration
                     can also be provided via command-line options,  the  con‚Äê
                     figuration  in  the database takes precedence if both are
                     present.

OPEN VSWITCH DATABASE USAGE
       ovn-controller uses a number of external_ids keys in the  Open  vSwitch
       database  to  keep track of ports and interfaces. For proper operation,
       users should not change or clear these keys:

              external_ids:ovn-chassis-id in the Port table
                     The presence of this key identifies a tunnel port  within
                     the  integration  bridge as one created by ovn-controller
                     to reach a remote chassis. Its value is the chassis ID of
                     the remote chassis.

              external_ids:ct-zone-range in the Open_vSwitch table
                     The presence of this key identifies a minimum and maximum
                     values for ct-zone ids dynamically selected  by  ovn-con‚Äê
                     troller  (boundaries  are included in the range). Minimum
                     value is 1 while maximum value is 65535.

              external_ids:ct-zone-* in the Bridge table
                     Logical ports and gateway routers are assigned a  connec‚Äê
                     tion  tracking  zone  by ovn-controller for stateful ser‚Äê
                     vices. To keep state across restarts  of  ovn-controller,
                     these  keys are stored in the integration bridge‚Äôs Bridge
                     table. The name contains a prefix of ct-zone- followed by
                     the name of the logical port  or  gateway  router‚Äôs  zone
                     key.  The value for this key identifies the zone used for
                     this port.

              external_ids:ovn-localnet-port in the Port table
                     The presence of this key identifies a patch port  as  one
                     created  by  ovn-controller  to  connect  the integration
                     bridge and another bridge to implement a localnet logical
                     port. Its value is the name of the logical port with type
                     set to localnet that  the  port  implements.  See  exter‚Ä‚Äê
                     nal_ids:ovn-bridge-mappings, above, for more information.

                     Each  localnet  logical  port is implemented as a pair of
                     patch ports, one in the integration bridge, one in a dif‚Äê
                     ferent  bridge,  with  the  same  external_ids:ovn-local‚Ä‚Äê
                     net-port value.

              external_ids:ovn-l2gateway-port in the Port table
                     The  presence  of this key identifies a patch port as one
                     created by  ovn-controller  to  connect  the  integration
                     bridge  and another bridge to implement a l2gateway logi‚Äê
                     cal port. Its value is the name of the logical port  with
                     type  set  to l2gateway that the port implements. See ex‚Ä‚Äê
                     ternal_ids:ovn-bridge-mappings, above, for more  informa‚Äê
                     tion.

                     Each  l2gateway  logical port is implemented as a pair of
                     patch ports, one in the integration bridge, one in a dif‚Äê
                     ferent bridge,  with  the  same  external_ids:ovn-l2gate‚Ä‚Äê
                     way-port value.

              external-ids:ovn-l3gateway-port in the Port table
                     This  key  identifies  a  patch  port  as  one created by
                     ovn-controller to implement a l3gateway logical port. Its
                     value is the name of the logical port with  type  set  to
                     l3gateway.  This patch port is similar to the OVN logical
                     patch port, except that l3gateway port can only be  bound
                     to a particular chassis.

              external-ids:ovn-logical-patch-port in the Port table
                     This  key  identifies  a  patch  port  as  one created by
                     ovn-controller to implement an  OVN  logical  patch  port
                     within  the  integration bridge. Its value is the name of
                     the OVN logical patch port that it implements.

              external-ids:ovn-startup-ts in the Bridge table
                     This key represents the timestamp  (in  milliseconds)  at
                     which ovn-controller process was started.

              external-ids:ovn-nb-cfg in the Bridge table
                     This   key   represents   the   last   known   OVN_South‚Ä‚Äê
                     bound.SB_Global.nb_cfg value for  which  all  flows  have
                     been successfully installed in OVS.

              external-ids:ovn-nb-cfg-ts in the Bridge table
                     This  key  represents  the timestamp (in milliseconds) of
                     the last known OVN_Southbound.SB_Global.nb_cfg value  for
                     which all flows have been successfully installed in OVS.

              external_ids:ovn-installed and external_ids:ovn-installed-ts in
              the Interface table
                     This key is set after all openflow operations correspond‚Äê
                     ing  to  the  OVS  interface  have been processed by ovs-
                     vswitchd. At the same time a timestamp,  in  milliseconds
                     since   the  epoch,  is  stored  in  external_ids:ovn-in‚Ä‚Äê
                     stalled-ts.

              external_ids:ovn-evpn-tunnel in the Port and Interface table
                     Presence of this key indicates  that  the  Port/Interface
                     was  created  by ovn-controller to be used as tunnel port
                     for EVPN traffic.

OVN SOUTHBOUND DATABASE USAGE
       ovn-controller reads from much of the OVN_Southbound database to  guide
       its operation. ovn-controller also writes to the following tables:

              Chassis
                     Upon  startup, ovn-controller creates a row in this table
                     to represent its own chassis. Upon graceful  termination,
                     e.g.  with  ovn-appctl  -t  ovn-controller  exit (but not
                     SIGTERM), ovn-controller removes its row.

              Encap  Upon startup, ovn-controller creates a  row  or  rows  in
                     this  table  that  represent the tunnel encapsulations by
                     which its chassis can be reached, and points its  Chassis
                     row  to  them.  Upon graceful termination, ovn-controller
                     removes these rows.

              Port_Binding
                     At runtime, ovn-controller sets the  chassis  columns  of
                     ports  that  are  resident on its chassis to point to its
                     Chassis row, and, conversely, clears the  chassis  column
                     of  ports that point to its Chassis row but are no longer
                     resident on its chassis. The chassis column  has  a  weak
                     reference  type,  so when ovn-controller gracefully exits
                     and removes its Chassis row, the database server automat‚Äê
                     ically clears any remaining references to that row.

              MAC_Binding
                     At runtime, ovn-controller updates the MAC_Binding  table
                     as  instructed  by  put_arp  and  put_nd logical actions.
                     These changes persist beyond  the  lifetime  of  ovn-con‚Ä‚Äê
                     troller.

RUNTIME MANAGEMENT COMMANDS
       ovn-appctl  can  send commands to a running ovn-controller process. The
       currently supported commands are described below.

              exit   Causes ovn-controller to gracefully terminate.

              ct-zone-list
                     Lists each local logical port and its connection tracking
                     zone.

              meter-table-list
                     Lists each meter table entry and its local meter id.

              group-table-list
                     Lists each group table entry and its local group id.

              inject-pkt microflow
                     Injects microflow into the  connected  Open  vSwitch  in‚Äê
                     stance.  microflow  must  contain an ingress logical port
                     (inport argument) that is present on the Open vSwitch in‚Äê
                     stance.

                     The microflow argument describes the  packet  whose  for‚Äê
                     warding is to be simulated, in the syntax of an OVN logi‚Äê
                     cal  expression,  as  described  in ovn-sb(5), to express
                     constraints. The parser  understands  prerequisites;  for
                     example, if the expression refers to ip4.src, there is no
                     need to explicitly state ip4 or eth.type == 0x800.

              connection-status
                     Show OVN SBDB connection status for the chassis.

              recompute
                     Trigger  a full compute iteration in ovn-controller based
                     on the contents of the Southbound database and local  OVS
                     database.

                     This  command  is  intended to use only in the event of a
                     bug in the  incremental  processing  engine  in  ovn-con‚Ä‚Äê
                     troller to avoid inconsistent states. It should therefore
                     be used with care as full recomputes are cpu intensive.

              sb-cluster-state-reset
                     Reset  southbound  database cluster status when databases
                     are destroyed and rebuilt.

                     If all databases in a clustered southbound  database  are
                     removed from disk, then the stored index of all databases
                     will  be reset to zero. This will cause ovn-controller to
                     be unable to read or write to  the  southbound  database,
                     because  it will always detect the data as stale. In such
                     a case, run this command so that ovn-controller will  re‚Äê
                     set  its  local  index  so  that it can interact with the
                     southbound database again.

              debug/delay-nb-cfg-report seconds
                     This command is used to delay ovn-controller updating the
                     nb_cfg back to OVN_Southbound database.  This  is  useful
                     when  ovn-nbctl  --wait=hv  is used to measure end-to-end
                     latency in a large scale  environment.  See  ovn-nbctl(8)
                     for more details.

              lflow-cache/flush
                     Flushes the ovn-controller logical flow cache.

              lflow-cache/show-stats
                     Displays logical flow cache statistics: enabled/disabled,
                     per cache type entry counts.

              inc-engine/show-stats
                     Display  ovn-controller  engine counters. For each engine
                     node the following counters have been added:

                     ‚Ä¢      recompute

                     ‚Ä¢      compute

                     ‚Ä¢      cancel

              inc-engine/show-stats engine_node_name counter_name
                     Display the  ovn-controller  engine  counter(s)  for  the
                     specified  engine_node_name. counter_name is optional and
                     can be one of recompute, compute or cancel.

              inc-engine/clear-stats
                     Reset ovn-controller engine counters.

OVN 25.09.90                    ovn-controller               ovn-controller(8)
