ovn-br-controller(8)              OVN Manual              ovn-br-controller(8)

NAME
       ovn-br-controller - Open Virtual Network local OVS bridge controller

SYNOPSIS
       ovn-br-controller [options] [ovs-database]

DESCRIPTION
       ovn-br-controller  is OVN logical flow based local controller daemon to
       control and program the Open vSwitch bridges. It connects up to the OVN
       bridge database (see ovn-br(5)) over the OVSDB protocol,  and  down  to
       the  Open vSwitch database (see ovs-vswitchd.conf.db(5)) over the OVSDB
       protocol  and  to  ovs-vswitchd(8)  via   OpenFlow.   ovn-br-controller
       processes  and  converts  the  OVN  Logical flows configured in the OVN
       bridge database for the Open vSwitch bridges to OpenFlow rules and pro‐
       grams these flow rules to the Open vSwitch bridges.

CONFIGURATION
       ovn-br-controller retrieves most of its configuration information  from
       the local Open vSwitch’s ovsdb-server instance. The default location is
       db.sock in the local Open vSwitch’s "run" directory. It may be overrid‐
       den  by specifying the ovs-database argument as an OVSDB active or pas‐
       sive connection method, as described in ovsdb(7).

       ovn-br-controller assumes it gets configuration  information  from  the
       following keys in the Open_vSwitch table of the local OVS instance:

              external_ids:ovn-br-remote
                     The  OVN  bridge database that this system should connect
                     to for its configuration, in one of the same forms  docu‐
                     mented above for the ovs-database.

       ovn-br-controller  reads  the  following  values  from the Open_vSwitch
       database of the local OVS instance:

              external_ids:ovnbr-managed from Interface table
                     If the value is true, then this interface is  managed  by
                     ovn-br-controller  if  this interface is connected to the
                     OVS bridge managed by ovn-br-controller.

                     Default value is true if this option is not defined.

                     CMS should set the value of this option to  false  if  it
                     doesn’t want ovn-br-controller to manage it.

OVN 26.03.90                   ovn-br-controller          ovn-br-controller(8)
