ovn-nbctl(8)                      OVN Manual                      ovn-nbctl(8)

NAME
       ovn-nbctl - Open Virtual Network northbound db management utility

SYNOPSIS
       ovn-nbctl [options] command [arg...]

DESCRIPTION
       The ovn-nbctl program configures the OVN_Northbound database by provid‚Äê
       ing a high-level interface to its configuration database. See ovn-nb(5)
       for comprehensive documentation of the database schema.

       ovn-nbctl  connects  to  an  ovsdb-server  process  that  maintains  an
       OVN_Northbound  configuration  database.  Using  this  connection,   it
       queries  and possibly applies changes to the database, depending on the
       supplied commands.

       ovn-nbctl can perform any number of commands in a  single  run,  imple‚Äê
       mented as a single atomic transaction against the database.

       The  ovn-nbctl command line begins with global options (see OPTIONS be‚Äê
       low for details). The global options are followed by one or  more  com‚Äê
       mands.  Each  command  should begin with -- by itself as a command-line
       argument, to separate it from the following commands.  (The  --  before
       the first command is optional.) The command itself starts with command-
       specific  options,  if  any, followed by the command name and any argu‚Äê
       ments.

DAEMON MODE
       When it is invoked in the most ordinary way, ovn-nbctl connects  to  an
       OVSDB  server  that  hosts the northbound database, retrieves a partial
       copy of the database that is complete enough to do its  work,  sends  a
       transaction  request  to  the  server,  and  receives and processes the
       server‚Äôs reply. In common interactive use, this is  fine,  but  if  the
       database is large, the step in which ovn-nbctl retrieves a partial copy
       of  the  database  can  take a long time, which yields poor performance
       overall.

       To improve performance in such  a  case,  ovn-nbctl  offers  a  "daemon
       mode,"  in  which  the user first starts ovn-nbctl running in the back‚Äê
       ground and afterward uses the daemon to execute operations.  Over  sev‚Äê
       eral  ovn-nbctl  command  invocations, this performs better overall be‚Äê
       cause it retrieves a copy of the database only once at  the  beginning,
       not once per program run.

       Use the --detach option to start an ovn-nbctl daemon. With this option,
       ovn-nbctl  prints  the  name  of a control socket to stdout. The client
       should save this name in environment variable OVN_NB_DAEMON. Under  the
       Bourne shell this might be done like this:

             export OVN_NB_DAEMON=$(ovn-nbctl --pidfile --detach)


       When  OVN_NB_DAEMON  is  set, ovn-nbctl automatically and transparently
       uses the daemon to execute its commands.

       When the daemon is no longer needed, kill it and unset the  environment
       variable, e.g.:

             kill $(cat $OVN_RUNDIR/ovn-nbctl.pid)
             unset OVN_NB_DAEMON


       When using daemon mode, an alternative to the OVN_NB_DAEMON environment
       variable  is  to  specify a path for the Unix socket. When starting the
       ovn-nbctl daemon, specify the -u option with a full path to  the  loca‚Äê
       tion of the socket file. Here is an exmple:

             ovn-nbctl --detach -u /tmp/mysock.ctl


       Then  to connect to the running daemon, use the -u option with the full
       path to the socket created when the daemon was started:

             ovn-nbctl -u /tmp/mysock.ctl show


     Daemon Commands

       Daemon mode is internally implemented using the same mechanism used  by
       ovn-appctl.  One  may  also  use ovn-appctl directly with the following
       commands:

              run [options] command [arg...] [-- [options] command [arg...]
              ...]
                     Instructs the daemon process to run one or more ovn-nbctl
                     commands described above and reply with  the  results  of
                     running  these  commands.  Accepts the --no-wait, --wait,
                     --timeout, --dry-run,  --oneline,  and  the  options  de‚Äê
                     scribed under Table Formatting Options in addition to the
                     the command-specific options.

              exit   Causes ovn-nbctl to gracefully terminate.

OPTIONS
       The  options  listed below affect the behavior of ovn-nbctl as a whole.
       Some individual commands also accept their own options, which are given
       just before the command name. If the first command on the command  line
       has  options,  then those options must be separated from the global op‚Äê
       tions by --.

       ovn-nbctl also accepts options from the  OVN_NBCTL_OPTIONS  environment
       variable,  in  the same format as on the command line. Options from the
       command line override those in the environment.

              --no-wait | --wait=none
              --wait=sb
              --wait=hv
                   These options control whether and how ovn-nbctl  waits  for
                   the OVN system to become up-to-date with changes made in an
                   ovn-nbctl invocation.

                   By default, or if --no-wait or --wait=none, ovn-nbctl exits
                   immediately after confirming that changes have been commit‚Äê
                   ted to the northbound database, without waiting.

                   With  --wait=sb,  before  ovn-nbctl  exits,  it  waits  for
                   ovn-northd to bring the southbound database up-to-date with
                   the northbound database updates.

                   With --wait=hv, before  ovn-nbctl  exits,  it  additionally
                   waits for all OVN chassis (hypervisors and gateways) to be‚Äê
                   come up-to-date with the northbound database updates. (This
                   can  become  an  indefinite wait if any chassis is malfunc‚Äê
                   tioning.)

                   Ordinarily, --wait=sb or --wait=hv only waits  for  changes
                   by  the  current  ovn-nbctl invocation to take effect. This
                   means that, if none of the commands supplied  to  ovn-nbctl
                   change the database, then the command does not wait at all.
                   Use the sync command to override this behavior.

              --db database
                   The  OVSDB database remote to contact. If the OVN_NB_DB en‚Äê
                   vironment variable is set, its value is  used  as  the  de‚Äê
                   fault.  Otherwise,  the default is unix:/ovnnb_db.sock, but
                   this default is unlikely to be useful outside of single-ma‚Äê
                   chine OVN test environments.

              --leader-only
              --no-leader-only
                   By default, or with --leader-only, when the database server
                   is a clustered database, ovn-nbctl will avoid servers other
                   than the cluster leader. This ensures that  any  data  that
                   ovn-nbctl   reads   and   reports   is   up-to-date.   With
                   --no-leader-only, ovn-nbctl will  use  any  server  in  the
                   cluster, which means that for read-only transactions it can
                   report  and act on stale data (transactions that modify the
                   database are always serialized even with --no-leader-only).
                   Refer to Understanding Cluster Consistency in ovsdb(7)  for
                   more information.

              --shuffle-remotes
              --no-shuffle-remotes
                   By  default, or with --shuffle-remotes, when there are mul‚Äê
                   tiple remotes specified  in  the  OVSDB  connection  string
                   specified  by  --db  or the OVN_NB_DB environment variable,
                   the order of the remotes will be shuffled before the client
                   tries to connect. The remotes will be shuffled only once to
                   a new order before the first connection attempt.  The  fol‚Äê
                   lowing retries, if any, will follow the same new order. The
                   default  behavior  is  to  make sure clients of a clustered
                   database can distribute evenly to all members of the  clus‚Äê
                   ter.  With  --no-shuffle-remotes,  ovn-nbctl  will  use the
                   original order specified in the connection string  to  con‚Äê
                   nect.  This  allows  user  to  specify the preferred order,
                   which is particularly useful for testing.

              --no-syslog
                   By default, ovn-nbctl logs its arguments and the details of
                   any changes that it makes to the system  log.  This  option
                   disables this logging.

                   This option is equivalent to --verbose=nbctl:syslog:warn.

              --oneline
                   Modifies the output format so that the output for each com‚Äê
                   mand  is printed on a single line. New-line characters that
                   would otherwise separate lines are  printed  as  \fB\\n\fR,
                   and  any  instances of \fB\\\fR that would otherwise appear
                   in the output are doubled. Prints a  blank  line  for  each
                   command that has no output. This option does not affect the
                   formatting  of  output  from the list or find commands; see
                   Table Formatting Options below.

              --dry-run
                   Prevents ovn-nbctl from actually modifying the database.

              -t secs
              --timeout=secs
                   By default, or with a secs of 0,  ovn-nbctl  waits  forever
                   for  a  response from the database. This option limits run‚Äê
                   time to approximately secs seconds. If the timeout expires,
                   ovn-nbctl will exit with a SIGALRM signal. (A timeout would
                   normally happen only if the database cannot  be  contacted,
                   or if the system is overloaded.)

              --print-wait-time
                   When  --wait is specified, the option --print-wait-time can
                   be used to print the time spent on  waiting,  depending  on
                   the  value  specified  in   --wait  option. If --wait=sb is
                   specified, it prints "ovn-northd delay before  processing",
                   which  is  the time between the Northbound DB update by the
                   command and the moment when  ovn-northd  starts  processing
                   the  update, and "ovn-northd completion", which is the time
                   between the  Northbound  DB  update  and  the  moment  when
                   ovn-northd  completes  the  Southbound DB updating success‚Äê
                   fully. If --wait=hv is specified, in addition to the  above
                   information, it also prints "ovn-controller(s) completion",
                   which  is the time between the Northbound DB update and the
                   moment when the slowest hypervisor finishes processing  the
                   update.

   Daemon Options
       --pidfile[=pidfile]
              Causes a file (by default, program.pid) to be created indicating
              the  PID  of the running process. If the pidfile argument is not
              specified, or if it does not begin with /, then it is created in
              .

              If --pidfile is not specified, no pidfile is created.

       --overwrite-pidfile
              By default, when --pidfile is specified and the  specified  pid‚Äê
              file already exists and is locked by a running process, the dae‚Äê
              mon refuses to start. Specify --overwrite-pidfile to cause it to
              instead overwrite the pidfile.

              When --pidfile is not specified, this option has no effect.

       --detach
              Runs  this  program  as a background process. The process forks,
              and in the child it starts a new session,  closes  the  standard
              file descriptors (which has the side effect of disabling logging
              to  the  console), and changes its current directory to the root
              (unless --no-chdir is specified). After the child completes  its
              initialization, the parent exits.

       --monitor
              Creates  an  additional  process  to monitor this program. If it
              dies due to a signal that indicates a programming  error  (SIGA‚Ä‚Äê
              BRT, SIGALRM, SIGBUS, SIGFPE, SIGILL, SIGPIPE, SIGSEGV, SIGXCPU,
              or SIGXFSZ) then the monitor process starts a new copy of it. If
              the daemon dies or exits for another reason, the monitor process
              exits.

              This  option  is  normally used with --detach, but it also func‚Äê
              tions without it.

       --no-chdir
              By default, when --detach is specified, the daemon  changes  its
              current  working  directory  to  the root directory after it de‚Äê
              taches. Otherwise, invoking the daemon from a carelessly  chosen
              directory  would  prevent  the administrator from unmounting the
              file system that holds that directory.

              Specifying --no-chdir suppresses this behavior,  preventing  the
              daemon  from changing its current working directory. This may be
              useful for collecting core files, since it is common behavior to
              write core dumps into the current working directory and the root
              directory is not a good directory to use.

              This option has no effect when --detach is not specified.

       --no-self-confinement
              By default this daemon will try to self-confine itself  to  work
              with  files  under  well-known  directories  determined at build
              time. It is better to stick with this default behavior  and  not
              to  use  this  flag  unless some other Access Control is used to
              confine daemon. Note that in contrast to  other  access  control
              implementations  that  are  typically enforced from kernel-space
              (e.g. DAC or MAC), self-confinement is imposed  from  the  user-
              space daemon itself and hence should not be considered as a full
              confinement  strategy,  but instead should be viewed as an addi‚Äê
              tional layer of security.

       --user=user:group
              Causes this program to run as  a  different  user  specified  in
              user:group,  thus  dropping  most  of the root privileges. Short
              forms user and :group are also allowed,  with  current  user  or
              group  assumed,  respectively.  Only daemons started by the root
              user accepts this argument.

              On   Linux,   daemons   will   be   granted   CAP_IPC_LOCK   and
              CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICES  before  dropping root privileges. Daemons
              that interact with a datapath, such  as  ovs-vswitchd,  will  be
              granted  three  additional  capabilities,  namely CAP_NET_ADMIN,
              CAP_NET_BROADCAST and CAP_NET_RAW. The  capability  change  will
              apply even if the new user is root.

              On Windows, this option is not currently supported. For security
              reasons,  specifying  this  option will cause the daemon process
              not to start.

   Logging options
       -v[spec]
       --verbose=[spec]
            Sets logging levels. Without any spec,  sets  the  log  level  for
            every  module and destination to dbg. Otherwise, spec is a list of
            words separated by spaces or commas or colons, up to one from each
            category below:

            ‚Ä¢      A valid module name, as displayed by the vlog/list  command
                   on ovs-appctl(8), limits the log level change to the speci‚Äê
                   fied module.

            ‚Ä¢      syslog,  console, or file, to limit the log level change to
                   only to the system log, to the console, or to a  file,  re‚Äê
                   spectively.  (If  --detach  is specified, the daemon closes
                   its standard file descriptors, so logging  to  the  console
                   will have no effect.)

                   On  Windows  platform,  syslog is accepted as a word and is
                   only useful along with the --syslog-target option (the word
                   has no effect otherwise).

            ‚Ä¢      off, emer, err, warn, info, or  dbg,  to  control  the  log
                   level.  Messages  of  the  given severity or higher will be
                   logged, and messages of lower  severity  will  be  filtered
                   out.  off filters out all messages. See ovs-appctl(8) for a
                   definition of each log level.

            Case is not significant within spec.

            Regardless of the log levels set for file, logging to a file  will
            not take place unless --log-file is also specified (see below).

            For compatibility with older versions of OVS, any is accepted as a
            word but has no effect.

       -v
       --verbose
            Sets  the  maximum  logging  verbosity level, equivalent to --ver‚Ä‚Äê
            bose=dbg.

       -vPATTERN:destination:pattern
       --verbose=PATTERN:destination:pattern
            Sets the log pattern for destination to pattern. Refer to  ovs-ap‚Ä‚Äê
            pctl(8) for a description of the valid syntax for pattern.

       -vFACILITY:facility
       --verbose=FACILITY:facility
            Sets  the RFC5424 facility of the log message. facility can be one
            of kern, user, mail, daemon, auth, syslog, lpr, news, uucp, clock,
            ftp, ntp, audit, alert, clock2, local0,  local1,  local2,  local3,
            local4, local5, local6 or local7. If this option is not specified,
            daemon  is used as the default for the local system syslog and lo‚Ä‚Äê
            cal0 is used while sending a message to the  target  provided  via
            the --syslog-target option.

       --log-file[=file]
            Enables  logging  to a file. If file is specified, then it is used
            as the exact name for the log file. The default log file name used
            if file is omitted is /usr/local/var/log/ovn/program.log.

       --syslog-target=host:port
            Send syslog messages to UDP port on host, in addition to the  sys‚Äê
            tem  syslog.  The host must be a numerical IP address, not a host‚Äê
            name.

       --syslog-method=method
            Specify method as how syslog messages should  be  sent  to  syslog
            daemon. The following forms are supported:

            ‚Ä¢      libc,  to use the libc syslog() function. Downside of using
                   this options is that libc adds fixed prefix to  every  mes‚Äê
                   sage  before  it is actually sent to the syslog daemon over
                   /dev/log UNIX domain socket.

            ‚Ä¢      unix:file, to use a UNIX domain socket directly. It is pos‚Äê
                   sible to specify arbitrary message format with this option.
                   However, rsyslogd 8.9 and older  versions  use  hard  coded
                   parser  function anyway that limits UNIX domain socket use.
                   If you want to use  arbitrary  message  format  with  older
                   rsyslogd  versions, then use UDP socket to localhost IP ad‚Äê
                   dress instead.

            ‚Ä¢      udp:ip:port, to use a UDP socket. With this  method  it  is
                   possible  to  use  arbitrary message format also with older
                   rsyslogd. When sending syslog messages over UDP socket  ex‚Äê
                   tra precaution needs to be taken into account, for example,
                   syslog daemon needs to be configured to listen on the spec‚Äê
                   ified  UDP  port, accidental iptables rules could be inter‚Äê
                   fering with local syslog traffic and there are  some  secu‚Äê
                   rity  considerations  that apply to UDP sockets, but do not
                   apply to UNIX domain sockets.

            ‚Ä¢      null, to discard all messages logged to syslog.

            The default is taken from the OVS_SYSLOG_METHOD environment  vari‚Äê
            able; if it is unset, the default is libc.

   Table Formatting Options
       These  options control the format of output from the list and find com‚Äê
       mands.

              -f format
              --format=format
                   Sets the type of table formatting. The following  types  of
                   format are available:

                   table  2-D text tables with aligned columns.

                   list (default)
                          A  list  with one column per line and rows separated
                          by a blank line.

                   html   HTML tables.

                   csv    Comma-separated values as defined in RFC 4180.

                   json   JSON format as defined in RFC 4627. The output is  a
                          sequence  of JSON objects, each of which corresponds
                          to one table. Each JSON  object  has  the  following
                          members with the noted values:

                          caption
                                 The  table‚Äôs  caption. This member is omitted
                                 if the table has no caption.

                          headings
                                 An array with one element per  table  column.
                                 Each  array  element  is  a string giving the
                                 corresponding column‚Äôs heading.

                          data   An array with one element per table row. Each
                                 element is also an array with one element per
                                 table column. The elements  of  this  second-
                                 level array are the cells that constitute the
                                 table.  Cells  that  represent  OVSDB data or
                                 data types are expressed in  the  format  de‚Äê
                                 scribed  in  the  OVSDB  specification; other
                                 cells are simply expressed as text strings.

              -d format
              --data=format
                   Sets the formatting for cells within output  tables  unless
                   the table format is set to json, in which case json format‚Äê
                   ting  is  always  used when formatting cells. The following
                   types of format are available:

                   string (default)
                          The simple format described in the  Database  Values
                          section of ovs-vsctl(8).

                   bare   The  simple format with punctuation stripped off: []
                          and {} are omitted  around  sets,  maps,  and  empty
                          columns,  items within sets and maps are space-sepa‚Äê
                          rated, and strings are never quoted. This format may
                          be easier for scripts to parse.

                   json   The RFC 4627 JSON format as described above.

              --no-headings
                   This option suppresses the heading row that  otherwise  ap‚Äê
                   pears in the first row of table output.

              --pretty
                   By  default, JSON in output is printed as compactly as pos‚Äê
                   sible. This option causes JSON in output to be printed in a
                   more readable fashion. Members of objects and  elements  of
                   arrays are printed one per line, with indentation.

                   This option does not affect JSON in tables, which is always
                   printed compactly.

              --bare
                   Equivalent to --format=list --data=bare --no-headings.

   PKI Options
       PKI  configuration is required to use SSL/TLS for the connection to the
       database.

              -p privkey.pem
              --private-key=privkey.pem
                   Specifies a PEM file containing the  private  key  used  as
                   identity for outgoing SSL/TLS connections.

              -c cert.pem
              --certificate=cert.pem
                   Specifies  a  PEM file containing a certificate that certi‚Äê
                   fies the private key specified on -p or --private-key to be
                   trustworthy. The certificate must be signed by the certifi‚Äê
                   cate authority (CA) that the peer  in  SSL/TLS  connections
                   will use to verify it.

              -C cacert.pem
              --ca-cert=cacert.pem
                   Specifies a PEM file containing the CA certificate for ver‚Äê
                   ifying  certificates  presented  to this program by SSL/TLS
                   peers. (This may be the same certificate that SSL/TLS peers
                   use to verify the certificate specified on -c or --certifi‚Ä‚Äê
                   cate, or it may be a different one, depending  on  the  PKI
                   design in use.)

              -C none
              --ca-cert=none
                   Disables  verification of certificates presented by SSL/TLS
                   peers. This introduces a security risk,  because  it  means
                   that  certificates  cannot be verified to be those of known
                   trusted hosts.

              --ssl-server-name=servername
                   Specifies the server name to use for TLS Server Name  Indi‚Äê
                   cation  (SNI). By default, the hostname from the connection
                   string is used for SNI. This option allows  overriding  the
                   SNI hostname, which is useful when connecting through prox‚Äê
                   ies or service meshes where the connection endpoint differs
                   from the intended server name.

              --bootstrap-ca-cert=cacert.pem
                     When  cacert.pem  exists, this option has the same effect
                     as -C or --ca-cert. If it does not exist, then  the  exe‚Äê
                     cutable  will  attempt  to obtain the CA certificate from
                     the SSL/TLS peer on its first SSL/TLS connection and save
                     it to the named PEM file. If it is  successful,  it  will
                     immediately  drop  the connection and reconnect, and from
                     then on all SSL/TLS connections must be authenticated  by
                     a certificate signed by the CA certificate thus obtained.

                     This  option  exposes the SSL/TLS connection to a man-in-
                     the-middle attack obtaining the initial  CA  certificate,
                     but it may be useful for bootstrapping.

                     This  option is only useful if the SSL/TLS peer sends its
                     CA certificate as part of the SSL/TLS certificate  chain.
                     SSL/TLS  protocols  do not require the server to send the
                     CA certificate.

                     This option is mutually exclusive with -C and --ca-cert.

   Other Options
       -h
       --help
            Prints a brief help message to the console.

       -V
       --version
            Prints version information to the console.

COMMANDS
       The following sections describe the commands that ovn-nbctl supports.

   General Commands
       init   Initializes the database, if it is empty. If  the  database  has
              already been initialized, this command has no effect.

       show [switch | router]
              Prints  a  brief overview of the database contents. If switch is
              provided, only records related to that logical switch are shown.
              If router is provided, only  records  related  to  that  logical
              router are shown.

   Logical Switch Commands
       ls-add Creates  a  new,  unnamed logical switch, which initially has no
              ports. The switch does not have a name, other commands must  re‚Äê
              fer to this switch by its UUID.

       [--may-exist | --add-duplicate] ls-add switch
              Creates  a  new logical switch named switch, which initially has
              no ports.

              The OVN northbound database  schema  does  not  require  logical
              switch  names  to be unique, but the whole point to the names is
              to provide an easy way for humans to refer to the switches, mak‚Äê
              ing duplicate names unhelpful. Thus, without any  options,  this
              command  regards  it  as an error if switch is a duplicate name.
              With --may-exist, adding a duplicate name succeeds but does  not
              create  a  new logical switch. With --add-duplicate, the command
              really creates a new logical switch with a duplicate name. It is
              an error to specify both options. If there are multiple  logical
              switches  with  a duplicate name, configure the logical switches
              using the UUID instead of the switch name.

       [--if-exists] ls-del switch
              Deletes switch. It is an error if switch does not exist,  unless
              --if-exists is specified.

       ls-list
              Lists all existing switches on standard output, one per line.

   ACL Commands
       These  commands  operates on ACL objects for a given entity. The entity
       can be either a logical switch or a port group. The entity can be spec‚Äê
       ified as uuid or name. The --type option can be  used  to  specify  the
       type of the entity, in case both a logical switch and a port groups ex‚Äê
       ist with the same name specified for entity. type must be either switch
       or port-group.

              [--type={switch | port-group}] [--log] [--meter=meter] [--sever‚Ä‚Äê
              ity=severity] [--name=name] [--label=label] [--sample-new=sam‚Äê
              ple] [--sample-est=sample] [--may-exist] [--apply-after-lb]
              [--tier] acl-add entity direction priority match verdict [net‚Äê
              work-function-group]
                     Adds  the  specified ACL to entity. direction must be ei‚Äê
                     ther from-lport or to-lport. priority must be  between  0
                     and  32767,  inclusive.  A full description of the fields
                     are in ovn-nb(5). If --may-exist is specified,  adding  a
                     duplicated  ACL  succeeds  but the ACL is not really cre‚Äê
                     ated. Without --may-exist, adding a  duplicated  ACL  re‚Äê
                     sults in error.

                     The  --log option enables packet logging for the ACL. The
                     options --severity and  --name  specify  a  severity  and
                     name, respectively, for log entries (and also enable log‚Äê
                     ging).  The  severity  must be one of alert, warning, no‚Ä‚Äê
                     tice, info, or debug. If a severity is not specified, the
                     default is info. The  --meter=meter  option  is  used  to
                     rate-limit packet logging. The meter argument names a me‚Äê
                     ter configured by meter-add.

                     The --sample-new (and optionally --sample-est) enable ACL
                     sampling.  A valid uuid of a row of the Sample table must
                     be provided.

                     The --apply-after-lb option sets  apply-after-lb=true  in
                     the  options  column of the ACL table. As the option name
                     suggests, the ACL  will  be  applied  after  the  logical
                     switch load balancer stage.

                     The  --tier  option  sets the ACL‚Äôs tier to the specified
                     value. For more information about ACL tiers, see the doc‚Äê
                     umentation for the ovn-nb(5) database.

              [--type={switch | port-group}] [--tier] acl-del entity [direc‚Äê
              tion [priority match]]
                     Deletes ACLs from entity. If only entity is supplied, all
                     the ACLs from the entity are  deleted.  If  direction  is
                     also specified, then all the flows in that direction will
                     be  deleted from the entity. If all the fields are given,
                     then a single flow that matches all the  fields  will  be
                     deleted.

                     If  the  --tier option is provided, then only ACLs of the
                     given tier value will be deleted, in addition to whatever
                     other criteria have been provided.

              [--type={switch | port-group}] [--all] acl-list entity
                     Lists the ACLs on entity.

                     The --all option will also list the port group ACLs asso‚Äê
                     ciated with each logical  switch  port,  when  a  logical
                     switch is provided as an argument.

   Network Function Commands
       [--may-exist] nf-add nf inport outport
              Creates  a  new  network  function  named nf with logical switch
              ports inport and outport. Both the ports must  be  on  the  same
              logical  switch and must be already created. When used in an ACL
              action, traffic matching the ACL are redirected to the inport if
              it is from-lport ACL and to the outport if it is  to-lport  ACL.
              The  response packets are sent through the same ports in reverse
              order.

              Without any options, this command regards it as an error  if  nf
              is  a  duplicate name. With --may-exist, adding network function
              with duplicate name overwrites the existing config.

       [--if-exists] nf-del nf
              Deletes nf specified as name or uuid. It is an error if nf  does
              not exist, unless --if-exists is specified.

       nf-list
              Lists all network functions.

       [--may-exist] nfg-add nfg id mode [nf]...
              Creates  a  new network function group named nfg with optionally
              one of more nf added to the group. The nfs must be already  cre‚Äê
              ated.  Traffic  redirection would be done towards one of the ac‚Äê
              tive network functions, based on health monitoring. If  all  are
              down, any one would be chosen for redirection.

              Each  network function group must have a unique id between 1 and
              255. The mode must be inline which is currently  the  only  sup‚Äê
              ported mode.

              Without  any options, this command regards it as an error if nfg
              is a duplicate name. With --may-exist, adding  network  function
              group with duplicate name overwrites the existing config.

       [--if-exists] nfg-del nfg
              Deletes  nfg  specified  as  name or uuid. It is an error if nfg
              does not exist, unless --if-exists is specified.

       nfg-list
              Lists all network function groups.

       [--may-exist] nfg-add-nf nfg nf
              Add a network function named nf  to  a  network  function  group
              named  nfg.  It  is an error if nfg or nf does not exist. Unless
              --may-exist is specified, it is an error if the nf  being  added
              is already a part of the nfg.

       nfg-del-nf nfg nf
              Delete a network function named nf from a network function group
              named  nfg. It is an error if nfg or nf does not exist. It is an
              error if nf is not a part of  the  nfg,  unless  --if-exists  is
              specified.

   Logical Switch QoS Rule Commands
       [--may-exist] qos-add switch direction priority match [mark=mark]
       [dscp=dscp] [rate=rate [burst=burst]]
              Adds QoS marking and metering rules to switch. direction must be
              either  from-lport  or  to-lport. priority must be between 0 and
              32767, inclusive.

              If dscp=dscp is specified, then matching packets will have  DSCP
              marking  applied.  dscp  must be between 0 and 63, inclusive. If
              rate=rate is specified then matching packets will have  metering
              applied   at   rate   kbps.  If  metering  is  configured,  then
              burst=burst specifies the burst rate  limit  in  kilobits.  dscp
              and/or  rate  are required arguments. If mark=mark is specified,
              then matching packets will be marked  (through  pkt.mark).  mark
              must be a positive integer.

              If  --may-exist  is specified, adding a duplicated QoS rule suc‚Äê
              ceeds but the QoS rule is not really created. Without  --may-ex‚Ä‚Äê
              ist, adding a duplicated QoS rule results in error.

       qos-del switch [direction [priority match]]
              Deletes  QoS  rules from switch. If only switch is supplied, all
              the QoS rules from the logical switch are deleted. If  direction
              is  also specified, then all the flows in that direction will be
              deleted from the logical switch. If all the fields are supplied,
              then a single  flow  that  matches  the  given  fields  will  be
              deleted.

              If  switch  and uuid are supplied, then the QoS rule with speci‚Äê
              fied uuid is deleted.

       qos-list switch
              Lists the QoS rules on switch.

   Meter Commands
       meter-add name action rate unit [burst]
              Adds the specified meter. name must be a unique name to identify
              this meter. The action argument  specifies  what  should  happen
              when this meter is exceeded. The only supported action is drop.

              The  unit specifies the unit for the rate argument; valid values
              are kbps and pktps for kilobits per second and packets per  sec‚Äê
              ond, respectively. The burst option configures the maximum burst
              allowed for the band in kilobits or packets depending on whether
              the  unit  chosen was kbps or pktps, respectively. If a burst is
              not supplied, the switch is free to select some reasonable value
              depending on its configuration.

              ovn-nbctl only supports adding a meter with a single  band,  but
              the other commands support meters with multiple bands.

              Names  that  start  with "__" (two underscores) are reserved for
              internal use by OVN, so ovn-nbctl does not allow adding them.

       meter-del [name]
              Deletes meters. By default, all meters are deleted. If  name  is
              supplied, only the meter with that name will be deleted.

       meter-list
              Lists all meters.

   Logical Switch Port Commands
       [--may-exist] lsp-add switch port
              Creates on lswitch a new logical switch port named port.

              It  is an error if a logical port named port already exists, un‚Äê
              less --may-exist is specified. Regardless of --may-exist, it  is
              an  error  if  the existing port is in some logical switch other
              than switch or if it has a parent port.

       [--may-exist] lsp-add switch port parent tag_request
              Creates on switch a logical switch port named  port  that  is  a
              child  of  parent  that  is identified with VLAN ID tag_request,
              which must be between 0 and 4095, inclusive. If  tag_request  is
              0,  ovn-northd  generates  a  tag that is unique in the scope of
              parent. This is useful in cases such  as  virtualized  container
              environments  where  Open vSwitch does not have a direct connec‚Äê
              tion to the container‚Äôs port and it must be shared with the vir‚Äê
              tual machine‚Äôs port.

              It is an error if a logical port named port already exists,  un‚Äê
              less  --may-exist is specified. Regardless of --may-exist, it is
              an error if the existing port is not in switch or if it does not
              have the specified parent and tag_request.

       [--if-exists] lsp-del port
              Deletes port. It is an error if  port  does  not  exist,  unless
              --if-exists is specified.

       lsp-list switch
              Lists  all  the  logical  switch ports within switch on standard
              output, one per line.

       lsp-get-parent port
              If set, get the parent port of port. If not set, print nothing.

       lsp-get-tag port
              If set, get the tag for port traffic. If not set, print nothing.

       lsp-set-addresses port [address]...
              Sets the addresses associated with port to address. Each address
              should be one of the following:

              an Ethernet address, optionally followed by a space and one or
              more IP addresses
                     OVN delivers packets for the  Ethernet  address  to  this
                     port.

              unknown
                     OVN  delivers  unicast Ethernet packets whose destination
                     MAC address is not in any logical port‚Äôs addresses column
                     to ports with address unknown.

              dynamic
                     Use this keyword to make ovn-northd generate  a  globally
                     unique MAC address and choose an unused IPv4 address with
                     the  logical  port‚Äôs  subnet and store them in the port‚Äôs
                     dynamic_addresses column.

              router Accepted only when the type of the logical switch port is
                     router. This indicates that the Ethernet, IPv4, and  IPv6
                     addresses for this logical switch port should be obtained
                     from  the  connected logical router port, as specified by
                     router-port in lsp-set-options.

              Multiple addresses may be set. If no address argument is  given,
              port will have no addresses associated with it.

       lsp-get-addresses port
              Lists all the addresses associated with port on standard output,
              one per line.

       lsp-set-port-security port [addrs]...
              Sets  the port security addresses associated with port to addrs.
              Multiple sets of addresses may be set by  using  multiple  addrs
              arguments.  If  no  addrs  argument is given, port will not have
              port security enabled.

              Port security limits the addresses from which a logical port may
              send packets and to  which  it  may  receive  packets.  See  the
              ovn-nb(5) documentation for the port_security column in the Log‚Ä‚Äê
              ical_Switch_Port table for details.

       lsp-get-port-security port
              Lists  all  the  port security addresses associated with port on
              standard output, one per line.

       lsp-get-up port
              Prints the state of port, either up or down.

       lsp-set-enabled port state
              Set the administrative state of port,  either  enabled  or  dis‚Ä‚Äê
              abled.  When  a  port is disabled, no traffic is allowed into or
              out of the port.

       lsp-get-enabled port
              Prints the administrative state of port, either enabled or  dis‚Ä‚Äê
              abled.

       lsp-set-type port type [peer=peer]
              Set  the  type for the logical port. The type must be one of the
              following:

              (empty string)
                     A VM (or VIF) interface.

              router A connection to a logical router.

              switch A connection to another logical switch. The optional  ar‚Äê
                     gument  peer  identifies  a logical switch port that con‚Äê
                     nects to this one.

                     All logical switch ports of that type have implicit  ‚Äôun‚Äê
                     known‚Äô  addresses  and  FDB learning enabled (unless port
                     security is set). This comes with all  the  positive  and
                     negative  sides  of  the  ‚Äôunknown‚Äô  address.  Static ad‚Äê
                     dresses-to-port mappings don‚Äôt need to be  maintained  on
                     each  node  and  only  the  actually  used  mappings  are
                     learned, but at a cost of broadcasting packets for  which
                     the destination address is not learned yet.

                     FDB  learning  will also cause not learned yet packets to
                     be sent to controller from each switch-switch  connection
                     they  traverse.  This  should be taken into consideration
                     while planning to have many directly  connected  switches
                     within a single availability zone.

              localnet
                     A  connection  to  a locally accessible network from each
                     ovn-controller instance. A logical switch can only have a
                     single localnet port attached. This is used to model  di‚Äê
                     rect connectivity to an existing network.

              localport
                     A  connection  to  a local VIF. Traffic that arrives on a
                     localport is never forwarded over  a  tunnel  to  another
                     chassis.  These  ports  are  present on every chassis and
                     have the same address in all of them.  This  is  used  to
                     model  connectivity  to  local services that run on every
                     hypervisor.

              l2gateway
                     A connection to a physical network.

              vtep   A port to a logical switch on a VTEP gateway.

       lsp-get-type port
              Get the type for the logical port.

       lsp-set-options port [key=value]...
              Set type-specific key-value options for the logical port.

       lsp-get-options port
              Get the type-specific options for the logical port.

       lsp-set-dhcpv4-options port dhcp_options
              Set the DHCPv4 options for the logical port. The dhcp_options is
              a UUID referring to a set of DHCP options  in  the  DHCP_Options
              table.

       lsp-get-dhcpv4-options port
              Get the configured DHCPv4 options for the logical port.

       lsp-set-dhcpv6-options port dhcp_options
              Set the DHCPv6 options for the logical port. The dhcp_options is
              a  UUID  referring  to a set of DHCP options in the DHCP_Options
              table.

       lsp-get-dhcpv6-options port
              Get the configured DHCPv6 options for the logical port.

       lsp-get-ls port
              Get the logical switch which the port belongs to.

       lsp-attach-mirror port m
              Attaches the mirror m to the logical port port.

       lsp-detach-mirror port m
              Detaches the mirror m from the logical port port.

   Forwarding Group Commands
       [--liveness]fwd-group-add group switch vip vmac ports
              Creates a new forwarding group named group as the name with  the
              provided  vip  and  vmac. vip should be a virtual IP address and
              vmac should be a virtual MAC address to  access  the  forwarding
              group.  ports  are the logical switch port names that are put in
              the forwarding group. Example for ports is lsp1 lsp2 ... Traffic
              destined to virtual IP of the forwarding group will be load bal‚Äê
              anced to all the child ports.

              When --liveness is specified then child ports are expected to be
              bound to external devices like routers. BFD should be configured
              between hypervisors and the external devices. The child port se‚Äê
              lection will become dependent on BFD status  with  its  external
              device.

       [--if-exists] fwd-group-del group
                Deletes  group. It is an error if group does not exist, unless
              --if-exists is specified.

       fwd-group-list [switch]
              Lists all existing forwarding groups,  If  switch  is  specified
              then  only  the  forwarding groups configured for switch will be
              listed.

   Logical Router Commands
       lr-add Creates a new, unnamed logical router, which  initially  has  no
              ports.  The router does not have a name, other commands must re‚Äê
              fer to this router by its UUID.

       [--may-exist | --add-duplicate] lr-add router
              Creates a new logical router named router, which  initially  has
              no ports.

              The  OVN  northbound  database  schema  does not require logical
              router names to be unique, but the whole point to the  names  is
              to  provide an easy way for humans to refer to the routers, mak‚Äê
              ing duplicate names unhelpful. Thus, without any  options,  this
              command  regards  it  as an error if router is a duplicate name.
              With --may-exist, adding a duplicate name succeeds but does  not
              create  a  new logical router. With --add-duplicate, the command
              really creates a new logical router with a duplicate name. It is
              an error to specify both options. If there are multiple  logical
              routers with a duplicate name, configure the logical routers us‚Äê
              ing the UUID instead of the router name.

       [--if-exists] lr-del router
              Deletes  router. It is an error if router does not exist, unless
              --if-exists is specified.

       lr-list
              Lists all existing routers on standard output, one per line.

   Logical Router Port Commands
       [--may-exist] lrp-add router port mac [network]... [peer=peer]
              Creates on router a new logical router port named port with Eth‚Äê
              ernet address mac and IP address/netmask for each network.

              The optional argument peer identifies a logical router port that
              connects to this one. The following example adds a  router  port
              with an IPv4 and IPv6 address with peer lr1:

              lrp-add lr0 lrp0 00:11:22:33:44:55 192.168.0.1/24 2001:db8::1/64
              peer=lr1

              It  is  an error if a logical router port named port already ex‚Äê
              ists, unless --may-exist is specified. Regardless  of  --may-ex‚Ä‚Äê
              ist, it is an error if the existing router port is in some logi‚Äê
              cal router other than router.

       [--if-exists] lrp-del port
              Deletes  port.  It  is  an  error if port does not exist, unless
              --if-exists is specified.

       lrp-list router
              Lists all the logical router ports  within  router  on  standard
              output, one per line.

       lrp-set-enabled port state
              Set  the  administrative  state  of port, either enabled or dis‚Ä‚Äê
              abled. When a port is disabled, no traffic is  allowed  into  or
              out of the port.

       lrp-get-enabled port
              Prints  the administrative state of port, either enabled or dis‚Ä‚Äê
              abled.

       lrp-set-gateway-chassis port chassis [priority]
              Set gateway chassis for port. chassis is the name of  the  chas‚Äê
              sis. This creates a gateway chassis entry in Gateway_Chassis ta‚Äê
              ble.  It  won‚Äôt check if chassis really exists in OVN_Southbound
              database. Priority will be set to 0 if priority is not  provided
              by user. priority must be between 0 and 32767, inclusive.

       lrp-del-gateway-chassis port chassis
              Deletes  gateway  chassis  from  port. It is an error if gateway
              chassis with chassis for port does not exist.

       lrp-get-gateway-chassis port
              Lists all the gateway chassis with priority within port on stan‚Äê
              dard output, one per line, ordered based on priority.

   Logical Router Static Route Commands
       [--may-exist] [--policy=POLICY] [--route-table=ROUTE_TABLE] [--ecmp]
       [--ecmp-symmetric-reply] [--bfd[=UUID]] lr-route-add router prefix nex‚Äê
       thop [port]
              Adds the specified route to router. prefix describes an IPv4  or
              IPv6  prefix  for  this route, such as 192.168.100.0/24. nexthop
              specifies the gateway to use for this route, which should be the
              IP address of one of router logical router ports or the  IP  ad‚Äê
              dress  of  a  logical  port.  If port is specified, packets that
              match this route will be sent out that port. When port is  omit‚Äê
              ted, OVN infers the output port based on nexthop. Nexthop can be
              set to discard for dropping packets which match the given route.

              The  --route-table  option can be used to assign the given route
              to a separate routing table ROUTE_TABLE instead of  the  default
              <main> table. For a detailed explanation of the route lookup be‚Äê
              havior,  see  the  description  of the field Logical_Router_Sta‚Ä‚Äê
              tic_Route:route_table in the ovn-nb(5) manpage.

              --policy describes the policy used to  make  routing  decisions.
              This  should  be  one of "dst-ip" or "src-ip". If not specified,
              the default is "dst-ip".

              The --ecmp option allows for multiple routes with the same  pre‚Äê
              fix POLICY but different nexthop and port to be added.

              The  --ecmp-symmetric-reply option makes it so that traffic that
              arrives over an ECMP route will have its reply traffic sent  out
              over  that  same  route.  Setting --ecmp-symmetric-reply implies
              --ecmp so it is not necessary to set both.

              --bfd option is used to link a BFD session to the OVN route.  If
              the  BFD  session  UUID is provided, it will be used for the OVN
              route otherwise the next-hop will be used to perform a lookup in
              the OVN BFD table. If the lookup fails and port is specified,  a
              new  entry in the BFD table will be created using the nexthop as
              dst_ip and port as logical_port.

              It is an error if a route with prefix and POLICY already exists,
              unless --may-exist, --ecmp, or --ecmp-symmetric-reply is  speci‚Äê
              fied.  If --may-exist is specified but not --ecmp or --ecmp-sym‚Ä‚Äê
              metric-reply, the existed route will be  updated  with  the  new
              nexthop  and port. If --ecmp or --ecmp-symmetric-reply is speci‚Äê
              fied, a new route will  be  added,  regardless  of  the  existed
              route.,  which  is  useful  when adding ECMP routes, i.e. routes
              with same POLICY and prefix but different nexthop and port.

       [--if-exists] [--policy=POLICY] [--route-table=ROUTE_TABLE]
       lr-route-del router [prefix [nexthop [port]]]
              Deletes routes from router. If only router is supplied, all  the
              routes  from  the logical router are deleted. If POLICY, prefix,
              nexthop and/or port are also specified, then all the routes that
              match the conditions will be deleted from the logical router.

              The --route-table option can be used to delete the  given  route
              from  the  route table ROUTE_TABLE instead of the default <main>
              table.

              It is an error if there  is  no  matching  route  entry,  unless
              --if-exists is specified.

       lr-route-list router
              Lists the routes on router.

   Logical Router Policy Commands
       [--may-exist] [--bfd] [--route-table=ROUTE_TABLE] lr-policy-add router
       priority match action [nexthop[,nexthop,...]] [options key=value]]
              Add  Policy  to  router  which  provides a way to configure per‚Äê
              mit/deny and reroute policies on the router.  Permit/deny  poli‚Äê
              cies  are  similar to OVN ACLs, but exist on the logical-router.
              Reroute policies are needed for service-insertion  and  service-
              chaining.  nexthop is an optional parameter. It needs to be pro‚Äê
              vided only when action is  reroute.  Multiple  nexthops  can  be
              specified  for  ECMP routing. A policy is uniquely identified by
              priority and match. Multiple policies can have the  same  prior‚Äê
              ity.  options  sets the router policy options as key-value pair.
              The supported option is : pkt_mark.

              If --may-exist is specified, adding a duplicated routing  policy
              with  the  same priority and match string is not really created.
              Without --may-exist, adding a duplicated routing policy  results
              in error.

              The --route-table option can be used to list the routes assigned
              to route table ROUTE_TABLE instead of the default <main> table.

              --bfd  option  is  used to link a BFD session to the OVN reroute
              policy. OVN will look for an already running BFD  session  using
              next-hop  as lookup key in the BFD table. If the lookup fails, a
              new entry in the BFD table will be created using the nexthop  as
              dst_ip.

              The  following  example  shows  a policy to lr1, which will drop
              packets from192.168.100.0/24.

              lr-policy-add lr1 100 ip4.src == 192.168.100.0/24 drop.

                lr-policy-add  lr1  100  ip4.src  ==  192.168.100.0/24   allow
              pkt_mark=100 .

       [--if-exists] lr-policy-del router [{priority | uuid} [match]]
              Deletes polices from router. If only router is supplied, all the
              polices  from the logical router are deleted. If priority and/or
              match are also specified, then all the polices  that  match  the
              conditions will be deleted from the logical router.

              If  router and uuid are supplied, then the policy with specified
              uuid is deleted. It is an error if uuid does not  exist,  unless
              --if-exists is specified.

       lr-policy-list router
              Lists the polices on router.

   NAT Commands
       [--may-exist] [--stateless] [--gateway-port=GATEWAY_PORT] [-portrange]
       [--match=MATCH] [--priority=PRIORITY] lr-nat-add router type exter‚Äê
       nal_ip logical_ip [logical_port external_mac] [external_port_range]
              Adds  the specified NAT to router. The type must be one of snat,
              dnat, or dnat_and_snat. The external_ip is an IPv4 address.  The
              logical_ip  is  an  IPv4 network (e.g 192.168.1.0/24) or an IPv4
              address. The logical_port and  external_mac  are  only  accepted
              when  router  is  a  distributed  router  (rather than a gateway
              router) and type is dnat_and_snat. The logical_port is the  name
              of an existing logical switch port where the logical_ip resides.
              The external_mac is an Ethernet address.

              When  --stateless  is  specified then it implies that we will be
              not use connection tracker, i.e internal ip and external ip  are
              1:1  mapped. This implies that --stateless is applicable only to
              dnat_and_snat type NAT rules. An external  ip  with  --stateless
              NAT cannot be shared with any other NAT rule.

              --gateway-port  option allows specifying the distributed gateway
              port of router where the NAT rule needs  to  be  applied.  GATE‚Äê
              WAY_PORT  should  reference  a Logical_Router_Port row that is a
              distributed gateway port of router.  When  router  has  multiple
              distributed  gateway  ports  and  the  gateway port for this NAT
              can‚Äôt be inferred from the external_ip, it is an  error  to  not
              specify the GATEWAY_PORT.

              If  the  --portrange  option is specified, then a range of ports
              may  be  specified  in  the  external_port_range  part  of   the
              lr-nat-add  command. If this option is omitted, then an external
              port range may not be specified. The format of the port range is
              port_low-port_high,  where  port_low  is  a  lower  number  than
              port_high.  When  the  packet  is NATted, a random port from the
              range will be selected as the source port. The range for the ex‚Ä‚Äê
              ternal_port_range is 1-65535.

              The --match allows to specify the extra match condition. The ex‚Äê
              tra match is for more fine-grained control over the NAT rule.

              The --priority option allows to specify order of NAT rule evalu‚Äê
              ation. Priority must be between 0 and 32767, inclusive  and  can
              be only specified together with --match.

              When type is dnat, the externally visible IP address external_ip
              is DNATted to the IP address logical_ip in the logical space.

              When  type is snat, IP packets with their source IP address that
              either matches the IP address in logical_ip or is in the network
              provided by logical_ip is SNATed into the IP address  in  exter‚Äê
              nal_ip.

              When  type  is  dnat_and_snat, the externally visible IP address
              external_ip is DNATted to the IP address logical_ip in the logi‚Äê
              cal space. In addition, IP packets with the  source  IP  address
              that  matches logical_ip is SNATed into the IP address in exter‚Äê
              nal_ip.

              When the logical_port and external_mac are  specified,  the  NAT
              rule  will  be  programmed on the chassis where the logical_port
              resides. This includes ARP replies for  the  external_ip,  which
              return  the  value of external_mac. All packets transmitted with
              source IP address equal to external_ip will be  sent  using  the
              external_mac.

              It  is  an error if a NAT already exists with the same values of
              router, type, external_ip, logical_ip and GATEWAY_PORT (in  case
              of  multiple  distributed  gateway ports), unless --may-exist is
              specified. When --may-exist, logical_port, and external_mac  are
              all  specified,  the  existing values of logical_port and exter‚Äê
              nal_mac are overwritten.

       [--if-exists] lr-nat-del router [type [ip] [gateway_port]]
              Deletes NATs from router. If only router is  supplied,  all  the
              NATs from the logical router are deleted. If type is also speci‚Äê
              fied, then all the NATs that match the type will be deleted from
              the  logical  router. If ip is also specified without specifying
              gateway_port, then all the NATs that match the type and ip  will
              be deleted from the logical router. If gateway_port is specified
              without specifying ip, then all the NATs that match the type and
              gateway_port will be deleted from the logical router. If all the
              fields  are  given,  then a single NAT rule that matches all the
              fields will be deleted. When type is snat, the ip should be log‚Äê
              ical_ip. When type is dnat or dnat_and_snat, the  ip  should  be
              external_ip.

              It  is  an  error  if both ip and gateway_port are specified and
              there is no matching NAT entry, unless --if-exists is specified.

       lr-nat-list router
              Lists the NATs on router.

   Load Balancer Commands
       [--may-exist | --add-duplicate | --reject | --event | --template]
       lb-add lb vip ips [protocol]
              Creates a new load balancer named lb with the provided  vip  and
              ips  or  adds the vip to an existing lb. vip should be a virtual
              IP address (or an IP address and a port number with : as a sepa‚Äê
              rator).  Examples  for  vip  are   192.168.1.4,   fd0f::1,   and
              192.168.1.5:8080. ips should be comma separated IP endpoints (or
              comma  separated IP addresses and port numbers with : as a sepa‚Äê
              rator). ips must be the same address family as vip. Examples for
              ips are 10.0.0.1,10.0.0.2or [fdef::1]:8800,[fdef::2]:8800.

              The optional argument protocol must be either tcp, udp or  sctp.
              This  argument  is useful when a port number is provided as part
              of the vip. If the protocol is unspecified and a port number  is
              provided as part of the vip, OVN assumes the protocol to be tcp.

              It  is  an  error if the vip already exists in the load balancer
              named lb, unless --may-exist is specified. With --add-duplicate,
              the command really creates a new load balancer with a  duplicate
              name.

              If  the load balancer is created with --reject option and it has
              no active backends, a TCP reset segment (for  tcp)  or  an  ICMP
              port  unreachable packet (for all other kind of traffic) will be
              sent whenever an incoming packet is received for this  load-bal‚Äê
              ancer.  Please  note using --reject option will disable empty_lb
              SB controller event for this load balancer.

              If the load balancer is created with --event option and  it  has
              no  active backends, whenever the lb receives traffic, the event
              is reported in the Controller_Event table in the SB  db.  Please
              note --event option can‚Äôt be specified with --reject one.

              If  the  load  balancer is created with --template option, local
              template variables may be used as arguments. These variables are
              stored in Chassis_Template_Var. To see  the  supported  variable
              formats,  see  ovn-nb(5). The following example adds a templated
              load  balancer:  ovn-nbctl  --template  lb-add  lb1  ^vip:^vport
              ^backend udp ipv4.

              The following example adds a load balancer.

              lb-add                      lb0                     30.0.0.10:80
              192.168.10.10:80,192.168.10.20:80,192.168.10.30:80 udp

       [--if-exists] lb-del lb [vip]
              Deletes lb or the vip from lb. If vip is supplied, only the  vip
              will  be deleted from the lb. If only the lb is supplied, the lb
              will be deleted. It is an error if vip does not already exist in
              lb, unless --if-exists is specified.

       lb-list [lb]
              Lists the LBs. If lb is also specified, then only the  specified
              lb will be listed.

       [--may-exist] ls-lb-add switch lb
              Adds  the  specified lb to switch. It is an error if a load bal‚Äê
              ancer named lb already exists in the switch, unless  --may-exist
              is specified.

       [--if-exists] ls-lb-del switch [lb]
              Removes  lb from switch. If only switch is supplied, all the LBs
              from the logical switch are removed. If lb  is  also  specified,
              then  only the lb will be removed from the logical switch. It is
              an error if lb does not exist in the switch, unless  --if-exists
              is specified.

       ls-lb-list switch
              Lists the LBs for the given switch.

       [--may-exist] lr-lb-add router lb
              Adds  the  specified lb to router. It is an error if a load bal‚Äê
              ancer named lb already exists in the router, unless  --may-exist
              is specified.

       [--if-exists] lr-lb-del router [lb]
              Removes  lb from router. If only router is supplied, all the LBs
              from the logical router are removed. If lb  is  also  specified,
              then  only the lb will be removed from the logical router. It is
              an error if lb does not exist in the router, unless  --if-exists
              is specified.

       lr-lb-list router
              Lists the LBs for the given router.

   DHCP Options commands
       dhcp-options-create cidr [key=value]
              Creates  a new DHCP Options entry in the DHCP_Options table with
              the specified cidr and optional external-ids.

       dhcp-options-list
              Lists the DHCP Options entries.

       dhcp-options-del dhcp-option
              Deletes the DHCP Options entry referred by dhcp-option UUID.

       dhcp-options-set-options dhcp-option [key=value]...
              Set the DHCP Options for the dhcp-option UUID.

       dhcp-options-get-options dhcp-option
              Lists the DHCP Options for the dhcp-option UUID.

   Port Group commands
       pg-add group [port]...
              Creates a new port group in the  Port_Group  table  named  group
              with optional ports added to the group.

       pg-set-ports group port...
              Sets  ports  on  the  port  group named group. It is an error if
              group does not exist.

       pg-get-ports group
              Gets ports on the port group named group.  It  is  an  error  if
              group does not exist.

       pg-del group
              Deletes  port  group group. It is an error if group does not ex‚Äê
              ist.

   HA Chassis Group commands
       ha-chassis-group-add group
              Creates a new HA chassis group  in  the  HA_Chassis_Group  table
              named group.

       ha-chassis-group-del group
              Deletes the HA chassis group group. It is an error if group does
              not exist.

       ha-chassis-group-list [ha-chassis-group]
              Lists all HA chassis groups along with the HA chassis if any as‚Äê
              sociated  with  it.  If ha-chassis-group is also specified, then
              only the specified ha-chassis-group will be listed.

       ha-chassis-group-add-chassis group chassis priority
              Adds a new HA chassis chassis to the HA Chassis group group with
              the specified priority. If the chassis already exists, then  the
              priority is updated. The chassis should be the name of the chas‚Äê
              sis in the OVN_Southbound.

       ha-chassis-group-remove-chassis group chassis
              Removes  the HA chassis chassis from the HA chassis group group.
              It is an error if chassis does not exist.

   Control Plane Protection Policy commands
       These commands manage meters configured in Copp table linking  them  to
       logical  datapaths  through  copp  column  in  Logical_Switch  or Logi‚Ä‚Äê
       cal_Router tables. Protocol packets for which  CoPP  is  enforced  when
       sending packets to ovn-controller (if configured):

              ‚Ä¢      ARP

              ‚Ä¢      ND_NS

              ‚Ä¢      ND_NA

              ‚Ä¢      ND_RA

              ‚Ä¢      ND

              ‚Ä¢      DNS

              ‚Ä¢      IGMP

              ‚Ä¢      packets that require ARP resolution before forwarding

              ‚Ä¢      packets that require ND_NS before forwarding

              ‚Ä¢      packets that need to be replied to with ICMP Errors

              ‚Ä¢      packets that need to be replied to with TCP RST

              ‚Ä¢      packets that need to be replied to with DHCP_OPTS

              ‚Ä¢      packets that trigger a reject action

              ‚Ä¢      packets that trigger a SCTP abort action

              ‚Ä¢      controller_events

              ‚Ä¢      BFD

              copp-add name proto meter
                     Adds  the  control  proto to meter mapping to the control
                     plane protection policy name. If no policy exists yet, it
                     creates one. If a mapping already existed for proto, this
                     will overwrite it.

              copp-del name [proto]
                     Removes the control proto mapping for  the  name  control
                     plane  protection  policy. If proto is not specified, the
                     whole control plane protection policy is destroyed.

              copp-list name
                     Display the current control plane protection  policy  for
                     name.

              ls-copp-add name switch
                     Adds the control plane protection policy name to the log‚Äê
                     ical switch switch.

              lr-copp-add name router
                     Adds the control plane protection policy name to the log‚Äê
                     ical router router.

   Mirror commands
       mirror-add m type [index] filter dest
              Creates  a  new  mirror in the Mirror table with the name m with
              the below mandatory arguments.

              type specifies the mirror type - gre , erspan or local.

              index specifies the tunnel index value (which is an integer)  if
              the type is gre or erspan.

              filter specifies the mirror source selection. Can be from-lport,
              to-lport or both.

              dest  specifies the mirror destination IP (v4 or v6) if the type
              is gre or erspan. For a type of local, this field defines a  lo‚Äê
              cal  interface  on  the OVS integration bridge to be used as the
              mirror destination. The interface must possess external-ids:mir‚Äê
              ror-id that matches this string.

       mirror-del m
              Deletes the mirror m.

       mirror-list
              Lists the mirrors.

   Synchronization Commands
       sync   Ordinarily, --wait=sb or --wait=hv only waits for changes by the
              current ovn-nbctl invocation to take effect. This means that, if
              none of the commands supplied to ovn-nbctl change the  database,
              then  the  command  does not wait at all. With the sync command,
              however, ovn-nbctl waits even for earlier changes to  the  data‚Äê
              base  to propagate down to the southbound database or all of the
              OVN chassis, according to the argument to --wait.

   Remote Connectivity Commands
       These commands manipulate the connections column in the NB_Global table
       and rows in the Connection table. When ovsdb-server  is  configured  to
       use  the  connections column for OVSDB connections, this allows the ad‚Äê
       ministrator to use ovn-nbctl to configure database connections.

              get-connection
                     Prints the configured connection(s).

              del-connection
                     Deletes the configured connection(s).

              [--inactivity-probe=msecs] set-connection target...
                     Sets the configured manager target or targets. Use  --in‚Ä‚Äê
                     activity-probe=msecs to override the default idle connec‚Äê
                     tion  inactivity  probe time. Use 0 to disable inactivity
                     probes.

   SSL/TLS Configuration Commands
       get-ssl
              Prints the SSL/TLS configuration.

       del-ssl
              Deletes the current SSL/TLS configuration.

       [--bootstrap] set-ssl private-key certificate ca-cert [ssl-protocol-
       list [ssl-cipher-list [ssl-ciphersuites]]]
              Sets the SSL/TLS configuration.

   Database Commands
       These commands query and modify the contents of ovsdb tables. They  are
       a slight abstraction of the ovsdb interface and as such they operate at
       a lower level than other ovn-nbctl commands.

       Identifying Tables, Records, and Columns

       Each of these commands has a table parameter to identify a table within
       the database. Many of them also take a record parameter that identifies
       a  particular  record  within  a table. The record parameter may be the
       UUID for a record, which may be abbreviated to its first  4  (or  more)
       hex  digits,  as  long  as that is unique. Many tables offer additional
       ways to identify records. Some commands  also  take  column  parameters
       that identify a particular field within the records in a table.

       For  a list of tables and their columns, see ovn-nb(5) or see the table
       listing from the --help option.

       Record names must be specified in full and with correct capitalization,
       except that UUIDs may be abbreviated to their first  4  (or  more)  hex
       digits, as long as that is unique within the table. Names of tables and
       columns  are  not  case-sensitive, and - and _ are treated interchange‚Äê
       ably. Unique abbreviations of table and column  names  are  acceptable,
       e.g. d or dhcp is sufficient to identify the DHCP_Options table.

       Database Values

       Each column in the database accepts a fixed type of data. The currently
       defined basic types, and their representations, are:

              integer
                     A  decimal integer in the range -2**63 to 2**63-1, inclu‚Äê
                     sive.

              real   A floating-point number.

              Boolean
                     True or false, written true or false, respectively.

              string An arbitrary Unicode string, except that null  bytes  are
                     not  allowed.  Quotes  are optional for most strings that
                     begin with an English letter or  underscore  and  consist
                     only  of letters, underscores, hyphens, and periods. How‚Äê
                     ever, true and false and strings that match the syntax of
                     UUIDs (see below) must be enclosed in  double  quotes  to
                     distinguish  them  from  other  basic  types. When double
                     quotes are used, the syntax is that of strings  in  JSON,
                     e.g.  backslashes  may  be used to escape special charac‚Äê
                     ters. The empty string must be represented as a  pair  of
                     double quotes ("").

              UUID   Either  a  universally  unique identifier in the style of
                     RFC 4122, e.g.  f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6,  or
                     an  @name  defined  by a get or create command within the
                     same ovs-vsctl invocation.

       Multiple values in a single column may be separated by spaces or a sin‚Äê
       gle comma. When multiple values are present,  duplicates  are  not  al‚Äê
       lowed,  and  order  is not important. Conversely, some database columns
       can have an empty set of values, represented as [], and square brackets
       may optionally enclose other non-empty sets or single values as well.

       A few database columns are ``maps‚Äô‚Äô of key-value pairs, where  the  key
       and the value are each some fixed database type. These are specified in
       the  form key=value, where key and value follow the syntax for the col‚Äê
       umn‚Äôs key type and value type, respectively. When  multiple  pairs  are
       present  (separated  by  spaces or a comma), duplicate keys are not al‚Äê
       lowed, and again the order is not important. Duplicate values  are  al‚Äê
       lowed.  An  empty map is represented as {}. Curly braces may optionally
       enclose non-empty maps as well (but use quotes  to  prevent  the  shell
       from  expanding other-config={0=x,1=y} into other-config=0=x other-con‚Ä‚Äê
       fig=1=y, which may not have the desired effect).

       Database Command Syntax

              [--if-exists] [--columns=column[,column]...] list table
              [record]...
                     Lists the data in each specified record.  If  no  records
                     are specified, lists all the records in table.

                     If --columns is specified, only the requested columns are
                     listed,  in  the  specified order. Otherwise, all columns
                     are listed, in alphabetical order by column name.

                     Without --if-exists, it is  an  error  if  any  specified
                     record  does not exist. With --if-exists, the command ig‚Äê
                     nores any record that does not exist,  without  producing
                     any output.

              [--columns=column[,column]...] find table [col‚Äê
              umn[:key]=value]...
                     Lists  the  data  in  each  record  in table whose column
                     equals value or, if key is specified, whose  column  con‚Äê
                     tains a key with the specified value. The following oper‚Äê
                     ators  may  be used where = is written in the syntax sum‚Äê
                     mary:

                     = != < > <= >=
                            Selects records in which column[:key] equals, does
                            not equal, is less than, is greater than, is  less
                            than  or  equal to, or is greater than or equal to
                            value, respectively.

                            Consider column[:key] and value as  sets  of  ele‚Äê
                            ments. Identical sets are considered equal. Other‚Äê
                            wise,  if  the sets have different numbers of ele‚Äê
                            ments, then the set with more elements is  consid‚Äê
                            ered  to  be larger. Otherwise, consider a element
                            from each set pairwise, in increasing order within
                            each set. The first pair that  differs  determines
                            the  result. (For a column that contains key-value
                            pairs, first all the keys are compared, and values
                            are considered only if the two sets contain  iden‚Äê
                            tical keys.)

                     {=} {!=}
                            Test for set equality or inequality, respectively.

                     {<=}   Selects  records in which column[:key] is a subset
                            of value. For example, flood-vlans{<=}1,2  selects
                            records  in  which  the  flood-vlans column is the
                            empty set or contains 1 or 2 or both.

                     {<}    Selects records in which column[:key] is a  proper
                            subset  of  value.  For example, flood-vlans{<}1,2
                            selects records in which the flood-vlans column is
                            the empty set or contains 1 or 2 but not both.

                     {>=} {>}
                            Same as {<=} and {<},  respectively,  except  that
                            the   relationship   is   reversed.  For  example,
                            flood-vlans{>=}1,2 selects records  in  which  the
                            flood-vlans column contains both 1 and 2.

                     The  following  operators  are  available  only  in  Open
                     vSwitch 2.16 and later:

                     {in}   Selects records in which  every  element  in  col‚Äê
                            umn[:key]  is  also in value. (This is the same as
                            {<=}.)

                     {not-in}
                            Selects records in which  every  element  in  col‚Äê
                            umn[:key] is not in value.

                     For  arithmetic  operators  (= != < > <= >=), when key is
                     specified but a particular record‚Äôs column does not  con‚Äê
                     tain  key, the record is always omitted from the results.
                     Thus,  the   condition   other-config:mtu!=1500   matches
                     records  that have a mtu key whose value is not 1500, but
                     not those that lack an mtu key.

                     For the set operators, when key is specified but  a  par‚Äê
                     ticular record‚Äôs column does not contain key, the compar‚Äê
                     ison  is  done  against an empty set. Thus, the condition
                     other-config:mtu{!=}1500 matches records that have a  mtu
                     key  whose  value  is not 1500 and those that lack an mtu
                     key.

                     Don‚Äôt forget to escape < or > from interpretation by  the
                     shell.

                     If --columns is specified, only the requested columns are
                     listed, in the specified order. Otherwise all columns are
                     listed, in alphabetical order by column name.

                     The  UUIDs  shown  for rows created in the same ovs-vsctl
                     invocation will be wrong.

              [--if-exists] [--id=@name] get table record [column[:key]]...
                     Prints the value of each specified column  in  the  given
                     record in table. For map columns, a key may optionally be
                     specified, in which case the value associated with key in
                     the column is printed, instead of the entire map.

                     Without  --if-exists,  it  is an error if record does not
                     exist or key is specified,  if  key  does  not  exist  in
                     record. With --if-exists, a missing record yields no out‚Äê
                     put and a missing key prints a blank line.

                     If  @name  is  specified, then the UUID for record may be
                     referred to by that name later in the same ovs-vsctl  in‚Äê
                     vocation in contexts where a UUID is expected.

                     Both --id and the column arguments are optional, but usu‚Äê
                     ally  at  least  one or the other should be specified. If
                     both are omitted, then get has no effect except to verify
                     that record exists in table.

                     --id and --if-exists cannot be used together.

              [--if-exists] set table record column[:key]=value...
                     Sets the value of each  specified  column  in  the  given
                     record  in table to value. For map columns, a key may op‚Äê
                     tionally be specified, in which case the value associated
                     with key in that column is changed (or added, if none ex‚Äê
                     ists), instead of the entire map.

                     Without --if-exists, it is an error if  record  does  not
                     exist.  With  --if-exists,  this  command does nothing if
                     record does not exist.

              [--if-exists] add table record column [key=]value...
                     Adds the specified value or key-value pair to  column  in
                     record  in  table.  If  column  is a map, then key is re‚Äê
                     quired, otherwise it is prohibited. If key already exists
                     in a map column, then the current value is  not  replaced
                     (use the set command to replace an existing value).

                     Without  --if-exists,  it  is an error if record does not
                     exist. With --if-exists, this  command  does  nothing  if
                     record does not exist.

              [--if-exists] remove table record column value...

                     [--if-exists] remove table record column key...

                     [--if-exists]  remove  table  record  column key=value...
                     Removes the specified values or key-value pairs from col‚Äê
                     umn in record in table. The first form applies to columns
                     that are not maps: each specified value is  removed  from
                     the  column.  The  second  and  third  forms apply to map
                     columns: if only a key is specified, then  any  key-value
                     pair  with  the  given  key is removed, regardless of its
                     value; if a value is given then a pair is removed only if
                     both key and value match.

                     It is not an error if the column  does  not  contain  the
                     specified key or value or pair.

                     Without  --if-exists,  it  is an error if record does not
                     exist. With --if-exists, this  command  does  nothing  if
                     record does not exist.

              [--if-exists] clear table record column...
                     Sets  each  column in record in table to the empty set or
                     empty map, as appropriate. This command applies  only  to
                     columns that are allowed to be empty.

                     Without  --if-exists,  it  is an error if record does not
                     exist. With --if-exists, this  command  does  nothing  if
                     record does not exist.

              [--id=(@name|uuid)] create table column[:key]=value...
                     Creates a new record in table and sets the initial values
                     of  each  column. Columns not explicitly set will receive
                     their default values. Outputs the UUID of the new row.

                     If @name is specified, then the UUID for the new row  may
                     be  referred  to by that name elsewhere in the same \*(PN
                     invocation in contexts where a  UUID  is  expected.  Such
                     references may precede or follow the create command.

                     If a valid uuid is specified, then it is used as the UUID
                     of the new row.

                     Caution (ovs-vsctl as example)
                            Records  in the Open vSwitch database are signifi‚Äê
                            cant only when they can be reached directly or in‚Äê
                            directly from the Open_vSwitch table.  Except  for
                            records  in  the QoS or Queue tables, records that
                            are not reachable from the Open_vSwitch table  are
                            automatically  deleted  from  the  database.  This
                            deletion happens immediately, without waiting  for
                            additional  ovs-vsctl  commands  or other database
                            activity. Thus, a create command must generally be
                            accompanied by additional commands within the same
                            ovs-vsctl invocation to add a chain of  references
                            to  the  newly  created  record from the top-level
                            Open_vSwitch record. The  EXAMPLES  section  gives
                            some examples that show how to do this.

              [--if-exists] destroy table record...
                     Deletes each specified record from table. Unless --if-ex‚Ä‚Äê
                     ists is specified, each records must exist.

              --all destroy table
                     Deletes all records from the table.

                     Caution (ovs-vsctl as example)
                            The  destroy command is only useful for records in
                            the QoS or Queue tables. Records in  other  tables
                            are  automatically  deleted from the database when
                            they become unreachable from the Open_vSwitch  ta‚Äê
                            ble.  This  means that deleting the last reference
                            to a record is sufficient for deleting the  record
                            itself.  For  records  in these tables, destroy is
                            silently ignored. See the EXAMPLES  section  below
                            for more information.

              wait-until table record [column[:key]=value]...
                     Waits  until  table  contains a record named record whose
                     column equals value or, if key is specified, whose column
                     contains a key with the  specified  value.  This  command
                     supports  the  same operators and semantics described for
                     the find command above.

                     If no column[:key]=value arguments are given,  this  com‚Äê
                     mand  waits  only  until  record exists. If more than one
                     such argument is given, the command waits  until  all  of
                     them are satisfied.

                     Caution (ovs-vsctl as example)
                            Usually  wait-until should be placed at the begin‚Äê
                            ning of a set of ovs-vsctl commands. For  example,
                            wait-until  bridge  br0  --  get  bridge br0 data‚Ä‚Äê
                            path_id waits until a bridge named br0 is created,
                            then prints its datapath_id  column,  whereas  get
                            bridge  br0  datapath_id  -- wait-until bridge br0
                            will abort if no  bridge  named  br0  exists  when
                            ovs-vsctl initially connects to the database.

                     Consider  specifying --timeout=0 along with --wait-until,
                     to prevent ovs-vsctl from terminating after waiting  only
                     at most 5 seconds.

              comment [arg]...
                     This  command has no effect on behavior, but any database
                     log record created by the command will include  the  com‚Äê
                     mand and its arguments.

ENVIRONMENT
       OVN_NB_DAEMON
              If set, this should name the Unix domain socket for an ovn-nbctl
              server process. See Daemon Mode, above, for more information.

       OVN_NBCTL_OPTIONS
              If  set,  a set of options for ovn-nbctl to apply automatically,
              in the same form as on the command line.

       OVN_NB_DB
              If set, the default database to contact when the --db option  is
              not used.

EXIT STATUS
       0      Successful program execution.

       1      Usage, syntax, or network error.

SEE ALSO
       ovn-nb(5), ovn-appctl(8).

OVN 25.09.90                       ovn-nbctl                      ovn-nbctl(8)
