ovn-northd(8)                     OVN Manual                     ovn-northd(8)

NAME
       ovn-northd - Open Virtual Network central control daemon

SYNOPSIS
       ovn-northd [options]

DESCRIPTION
       ovn-northd  is  a  centralized  daemon  responsible for translating the
       high-level OVN configuration into logical configuration  consumable  by
       daemons  such as ovn-controller. It translates the logical network con‚Äê
       figuration in terms of conventional network concepts,  taken  from  the
       OVN Northbound Database (see ovn-nb(5)), into logical datapath flows in
       the OVN Southbound Database (see ovn-sb(5)) below it.

OPTIONS
       --ovnnb-db=database
              The  OVSDB  database  containing the OVN Northbound Database. If
              the OVN_NB_DB environment variable is set, its value is used  as
              the default. Otherwise, the default is unix:/ovnnb_db.sock.

       --ovnsb-db=database
              The  OVSDB  database  containing the OVN Southbound Database. If
              the OVN_SB_DB environment variable is set, its value is used  as
              the default. Otherwise, the default is unix:/ovnsb_db.sock.

       --dry-run
              Causes   ovn-northd  to  start  paused.  In  the  paused  state,
              ovn-northd does not apply any changes to the databases, although
              it continues to monitor them.  For  more  information,  see  the
              pause command, under Runtime Management Commands below.

       --n-threads=N
              In  certain  situations,  it  may  be desirable to enable paral‚Äê
              lelization on a system to decrease  latency  (at  the  potential
              cost of increasing CPU usage).

              This option will cause ovn-northd to use N threads when building
              logical flows, when N is within [2-256]. If N is 1, paralleliza‚Äê
              tion is disabled (default behavior). If N is less than 1, then N
              is  set  to  1,  parallelization  is  disabled  and a warning is
              logged. If N is more than 256, then N  is  set  to  256,  paral‚Äê
              lelization  is  enabled  (with  256  threads)  and  a warning is
              logged.

       --dump-inc-proc-graph[=node]
              Dump the incremental processing engine graph  representation  in
              DOT format to stdout at startup and then exit. If node is speci‚Äê
              fied, only the subgraph rooted at that engine node is printed.

       database  in  the above options must be an OVSDB active or passive con‚Äê
       nection method, as described in ovsdb(7).

   Daemon Options
       --pidfile[=pidfile]
              Causes a file (by default, program.pid) to be created indicating
              the PID of the running process. If the pidfile argument  is  not
              specified, or if it does not begin with /, then it is created in
              .

              If --pidfile is not specified, no pidfile is created.

       --overwrite-pidfile
              By  default,  when --pidfile is specified and the specified pid‚Äê
              file already exists and is locked by a running process, the dae‚Äê
              mon refuses to start. Specify --overwrite-pidfile to cause it to
              instead overwrite the pidfile.

              When --pidfile is not specified, this option has no effect.

       --detach
              Runs this program as a background process.  The  process  forks,
              and  in  the  child it starts a new session, closes the standard
              file descriptors (which has the side effect of disabling logging
              to the console), and changes its current directory to  the  root
              (unless  --no-chdir is specified). After the child completes its
              initialization, the parent exits.

       --monitor
              Creates an additional process to monitor  this  program.  If  it
              dies  due  to a signal that indicates a programming error (SIGA‚Ä‚Äê
              BRT, SIGALRM, SIGBUS, SIGFPE, SIGILL, SIGPIPE, SIGSEGV, SIGXCPU,
              or SIGXFSZ) then the monitor process starts a new copy of it. If
              the daemon dies or exits for another reason, the monitor process
              exits.

              This option is normally used with --detach, but  it  also  func‚Äê
              tions without it.

       --no-chdir
              By  default,  when --detach is specified, the daemon changes its
              current working directory to the root  directory  after  it  de‚Äê
              taches.  Otherwise, invoking the daemon from a carelessly chosen
              directory would prevent the administrator  from  unmounting  the
              file system that holds that directory.

              Specifying  --no-chdir  suppresses this behavior, preventing the
              daemon from changing its current working directory. This may  be
              useful for collecting core files, since it is common behavior to
              write core dumps into the current working directory and the root
              directory is not a good directory to use.

              This option has no effect when --detach is not specified.

       --no-self-confinement
              By  default  this daemon will try to self-confine itself to work
              with files under  well-known  directories  determined  at  build
              time.  It  is better to stick with this default behavior and not
              to use this flag unless some other Access  Control  is  used  to
              confine  daemon.  Note  that in contrast to other access control
              implementations that are typically  enforced  from  kernel-space
              (e.g.  DAC  or  MAC), self-confinement is imposed from the user-
              space daemon itself and hence should not be considered as a full
              confinement strategy, but instead should be viewed as  an  addi‚Äê
              tional layer of security.

       --user=user:group
              Causes  this  program  to  run  as a different user specified in
              user:group, thus dropping most of  the  root  privileges.  Short
              forms  user  and  :group  are also allowed, with current user or
              group assumed, respectively. Only daemons started  by  the  root
              user accepts this argument.

              On   Linux,   daemons   will   be   granted   CAP_IPC_LOCK   and
              CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICES before dropping root  privileges.  Daemons
              that  interact  with  a  datapath, such as ovs-vswitchd, will be
              granted three  additional  capabilities,  namely  CAP_NET_ADMIN,
              CAP_NET_BROADCAST  and  CAP_NET_RAW.  The capability change will
              apply even if the new user is root.

              On Windows, this option is not currently supported. For security
              reasons, specifying this option will cause  the  daemon  process
              not to start.

   Logging Options
       -v[spec]
       --verbose=[spec]
            Sets  logging  levels.  Without  any  spec, sets the log level for
            every module and destination to dbg. Otherwise, spec is a list  of
            words separated by spaces or commas or colons, up to one from each
            category below:

            ‚Ä¢      A  valid module name, as displayed by the vlog/list command
                   on ovs-appctl(8), limits the log level change to the speci‚Äê
                   fied module.

            ‚Ä¢      syslog, console, or file, to limit the log level change  to
                   only  to  the system log, to the console, or to a file, re‚Äê
                   spectively. (If --detach is specified,  the  daemon  closes
                   its  standard  file  descriptors, so logging to the console
                   will have no effect.)

                   On Windows platform, syslog is accepted as a  word  and  is
                   only useful along with the --syslog-target option (the word
                   has no effect otherwise).

            ‚Ä¢      off,  emer,  err,  warn,  info,  or dbg, to control the log
                   level. Messages of the given severity  or  higher  will  be
                   logged,  and  messages  of  lower severity will be filtered
                   out. off filters out all messages. See ovs-appctl(8) for  a
                   definition of each log level.

            Case is not significant within spec.

            Regardless  of the log levels set for file, logging to a file will
            not take place unless --log-file is also specified (see below).

            For compatibility with older versions of OVS, any is accepted as a
            word but has no effect.

       -v
       --verbose
            Sets the maximum logging verbosity  level,  equivalent  to  --ver‚Ä‚Äê
            bose=dbg.

       -vPATTERN:destination:pattern
       --verbose=PATTERN:destination:pattern
            Sets  the log pattern for destination to pattern. Refer to ovs-ap‚Ä‚Äê
            pctl(8) for a description of the valid syntax for pattern.

       -vFACILITY:facility
       --verbose=FACILITY:facility
            Sets the RFC5424 facility of the log message. facility can be  one
            of kern, user, mail, daemon, auth, syslog, lpr, news, uucp, clock,
            ftp,  ntp,  audit,  alert, clock2, local0, local1, local2, local3,
            local4, local5, local6 or local7. If this option is not specified,
            daemon is used as the default for the local system syslog and  lo‚Ä‚Äê
            cal0  is  used  while sending a message to the target provided via
            the --syslog-target option.

       --log-file[=file]
            Enables logging to a file. If file is specified, then it  is  used
            as the exact name for the log file. The default log file name used
            if file is omitted is /usr/local/var/log/ovn/program.log.

       --syslog-target=host:port
            Send  syslog messages to UDP port on host, in addition to the sys‚Äê
            tem syslog. The host must be a numerical IP address, not  a  host‚Äê
            name.

       --syslog-method=method
            Specify  method  as  how  syslog messages should be sent to syslog
            daemon. The following forms are supported:

            ‚Ä¢      libc, to use the libc syslog() function. Downside of  using
                   this  options  is that libc adds fixed prefix to every mes‚Äê
                   sage before it is actually sent to the syslog  daemon  over
                   /dev/log UNIX domain socket.

            ‚Ä¢      unix:file, to use a UNIX domain socket directly. It is pos‚Äê
                   sible to specify arbitrary message format with this option.
                   However,  rsyslogd  8.9  and  older versions use hard coded
                   parser function anyway that limits UNIX domain socket  use.
                   If  you  want  to  use  arbitrary message format with older
                   rsyslogd versions, then use UDP socket to localhost IP  ad‚Äê
                   dress instead.

            ‚Ä¢      udp:ip:port,  to  use  a UDP socket. With this method it is
                   possible to use arbitrary message format  also  with  older
                   rsyslogd.  When sending syslog messages over UDP socket ex‚Äê
                   tra precaution needs to be taken into account, for example,
                   syslog daemon needs to be configured to listen on the spec‚Äê
                   ified UDP port, accidental iptables rules could  be  inter‚Äê
                   fering  with  local syslog traffic and there are some secu‚Äê
                   rity considerations that apply to UDP sockets, but  do  not
                   apply to UNIX domain sockets.

            ‚Ä¢      null, to discard all messages logged to syslog.

            The  default is taken from the OVS_SYSLOG_METHOD environment vari‚Äê
            able; if it is unset, the default is libc.

   PKI Options
       PKI configuration is required in order to use SSL/TLS for  the  connec‚Äê
       tions to the Northbound and Southbound databases.

              -p privkey.pem
              --private-key=privkey.pem
                   Specifies  a  PEM  file  containing the private key used as
                   identity for outgoing SSL/TLS connections.

              -c cert.pem
              --certificate=cert.pem
                   Specifies a PEM file containing a certificate  that  certi‚Äê
                   fies the private key specified on -p or --private-key to be
                   trustworthy. The certificate must be signed by the certifi‚Äê
                   cate  authority  (CA)  that the peer in SSL/TLS connections
                   will use to verify it.

              -C cacert.pem
              --ca-cert=cacert.pem
                   Specifies a PEM file containing the CA certificate for ver‚Äê
                   ifying certificates presented to this  program  by  SSL/TLS
                   peers. (This may be the same certificate that SSL/TLS peers
                   use to verify the certificate specified on -c or --certifi‚Ä‚Äê
                   cate,  or  it  may be a different one, depending on the PKI
                   design in use.)

              -C none
              --ca-cert=none
                   Disables verification of certificates presented by  SSL/TLS
                   peers.  This  introduces  a security risk, because it means
                   that certificates cannot be verified to be those  of  known
                   trusted hosts.

              --ssl-server-name=servername
                   Specifies  the server name to use for TLS Server Name Indi‚Äê
                   cation (SNI). By default, the hostname from the  connection
                   string  is  used for SNI. This option allows overriding the
                   SNI hostname, which is useful when connecting through prox‚Äê
                   ies or service meshes where the connection endpoint differs
                   from the intended server name.

   Other Options
       --unixctl=socket
              Sets the name of the control socket on which program listens for
              runtime management commands (see  RUNTIME  MANAGEMENT  COMMANDS,
              below).  If  socket  does not begin with /, it is interpreted as
              relative to . If --unixctl is  not  used  at  all,  the  default
              socket is /program.pid.ctl, where pid is program‚Äôs process ID.

              On Windows a local named pipe is used to listen for runtime man‚Äê
              agement  commands.  A  file  is  created in the absolute path as
              pointed by socket or if --unixctl is not used at all, a file  is
              created  as  program in the configured OVS_RUNDIR directory. The
              file exists just to mimic the behavior of a Unix domain socket.

              Specifying none for socket disables the control socket feature.



       -h
       --help
            Prints a brief help message to the console.

       -V
       --version
            Prints version information to the console.

RUNTIME MANAGEMENT COMMANDS
       ovn-appctl can send commands to a running ovn-northd process. The  cur‚Äê
       rently supported commands are described below.

              exit   Causes ovn-northd to gracefully terminate.

              pause  Pauses ovn-northd. When it is paused, ovn-northd receives
                     changes  from  the  Northbound  and  Southbound  database
                     changes as usual, but it does not  send  any  updates.  A
                     paused ovn-northd also drops database locks, which allows
                     any other non-paused instance of ovn-northd to take over.

              resume Resumes  the  ovn-northd  operation to process Northbound
                     and Southbound database  contents  and  generate  logical
                     flows.  This  will also instruct ovn-northd to aspire for
                     the lock on SB DB.

              is-paused
                     Returns "true" if ovn-northd is currently paused, "false"
                     otherwise.

              status Prints this server‚Äôs status. Status will be  "active"  if
                     ovn-northd has acquired OVSDB lock on SB DB, "standby" if
                     it has not or "paused" if this instance is paused.

              sb-cluster-state-reset
                     Reset  southbound  database cluster status when databases
                     are destroyed and rebuilt.

                     If all databases in a clustered southbound  database  are
                     removed from disk, then the stored index of all databases
                     will  be  reset to zero. This will cause ovn-northd to be
                     unable to read or write to the southbound  database,  be‚Äê
                     cause  it will always detect the data as stale. In such a
                     case, run this command so that ovn-northd will reset  its
                     local  index  so that it can interact with the southbound
                     database again.

              nb-cluster-state-reset
                     Reset northbound database cluster status  when  databases
                     are destroyed and rebuilt.

                     This performs the same task as sb-cluster-state-reset ex‚Äê
                     cept for the northbound database client.

              parallel-build/set-n-threads N
                     Set  the  number  of  threads  used  for building logical
                     flows. When N is within [2-256], parallelization  is  en‚Äê
                     abled. When N is 1 parallelization is disabled. When N is
                     less  than  1  or more than 256, an error is returned. If
                     ovn-northd fails to start parallelization (e.g. fails  to
                     setup semaphores), parallelization is disabled and an er‚Äê
                     ror is returned.

              parallel-build/get-n-threads
                     Return  the  number  of threads used for building logical
                     flows.

              nb-connection-status
                     Prints whether the connection to the OVN Northbound data‚Äê
                     base is currently connected or not.

              sb-connection-status
                     Prints whether the connection to the OVN Southbound data‚Äê
                     base is currently connected or not.

              debug/chassis-features-list
                     Lists the chassis feature flags and their current  values
                     as  determined  by ovn-northd. These features reflect the
                     capabilities reported by the connected chassis.

              inc-engine/show-stats
                     Display ovn-northd engine counters. For each engine  node
                     the following counters have been added:

                     ‚Ä¢      recompute

                     ‚Ä¢      compute

                     ‚Ä¢      abort

              inc-engine/show-stats engine_node_name [counter_name]
                     Display  the  ovn-northd engine counter(s) for the speci‚Äê
                     fied engine_node_name. counter_name is optional  and  can
                     be one of recompute, compute or abort.

              inc-engine/clear-stats
                     Reset ovn-northd engine counters.

              inc-engine/recompute
                     Triggers  a  full recompute of the incremental processing
                     engine on the next iteration.

              inc-engine/compute-log-timeout msecs
                     Sets the timeout in milliseconds for logging engine  com‚Äê
                     pute events.

              inc-engine/list-stopwatches [node]
                     Lists the engine nodes and their change handler names. If
                     node is specified, only the handlers for that engine node
                     are listed.

ACTIVE-STANDBY FOR HIGH AVAILABILITY
       You  may  run ovn-northd more than once in an OVN deployment. When con‚Äê
       nected to a standalone or clustered DB setup,  OVN  will  automatically
       ensure that only one of them is active at a time. If multiple instances
       of  ovn-northd  are running and the active ovn-northd fails, one of the
       hot standby instances of ovn-northd will automatically take over.

   Active-Standby with multiple OVN DB servers
       You may run multiple OVN DB servers in an OVN deployment with:

              ‚Ä¢      OVN DB servers deployed in active/passive mode  with  one
                     active and multiple passive ovsdb-servers.

              ‚Ä¢      ovn-northd  also  deployed on all these nodes, using unix
                     ctl sockets to connect to the local OVN DB servers.

       In such deployments, the ovn-northds on the passive nodes will  process
       the  DB  changes  and compute logical flows to be thrown out later, be‚Äê
       cause write transactions are not allowed by the passive  ovsdb-servers.
       It results in unnecessary CPU usage.

       With  the  help  of  runtime  management  command  pause, you can pause
       ovn-northd on these nodes. When a passive node becomes master, you  can
       use  the  runtime management command resume to resume the ovn-northd to
       process the DB changes.

LOGICAL FLOW TABLE STRUCTURE
       For a detailed description of the logical flow tables  that  ovn-northd
       populates  in the OVN_Southbound database, including logical switch and
       router datapath pipelines and drop  sampling  behavior,  see  ovn-logi‚Ä‚Äê
       cal-flows(7).

OVN 26.03.90                      ovn-northd                     ovn-northd(8)
