ovn-ic-sb(5)                  Open vSwitch Manual                 ovn-ic-sb(5)

NAME
       ovn-ic-sb - OVN_IC_Southbound database schema

       This database holds configuration and state for interconnecting differ‚Äê
       ent  OVN deployments. The content of the database is populated and used
       by the ovn-ic program in each OVN deployment, and not  supposed  to  be
       directly used by CMS or end user.

       The OVN Interconnection Southbound database is shared by ovn-ic program
       in  each  OVN  deployment. It contains interconnection information from
       all related OVN deployments, and is used as the intermediate store  for
       each  OVN deployment to exchange the information. The ovn-ic program in
       each deployment is responsible for syncing the data between this  data‚Äê
       base and the its own northbound and southbound databases.

   Database Structure
       The  OVN  Interconnection  Southbound database contains classes of data
       with different properties, as described in the sections below.

     Availability Zone Specific Information

       These tables contain objects that are availability zone specific.  Each
       object  is  owned  and  populated by one availability zone, and read by
       other availability zones.

       The Availability_Zone, Gateway, Encap and Port_Binding tables  are  the
       availability zone specific tables.

     Global Information

       The  data that does not belong to any specific availability zone but is
       common for all availability zones.

       The Datapath_Binding table contains the common datapath binding  infor‚Äê
       mation.

     Common Columns

       Each  of  the  tables in this database contains a special column, named
       external_ids. This column has the same form and purpose each  place  it
       appears.

              external_ids: map of string-string pairs
                     Key-value pairs for use by ovn-ic.

TABLE SUMMARY
       The  following list summarizes the purpose of each of the tables in the
       OVN_IC_Southbound database.  Each table is described in more detail  on
       a later page.

       Table     Purpose
       IC_SB_Global
                 IC Southbound configuration
       Availability_Zone
                 Availability Zone Information
       Gateway   Interconnection Gateway Information
       Encap     Encapsulation Types
       Datapath_Binding
                 Transit Switch Datapath Bindings
       Port_Binding
                 Transit Port Bindings
       Route     Route
       Connection
                 OVSDB client connections.
       SSL       SSL configuration.
       Service_Monitor
                 Service_Monitor configuration.

IC_SB_Global TABLE
       Interconnection  Southbound configuration. This table must have exactly
       one row.

   Summary:
       Status:
         nb_ic_cfg                   integer
       Common Columns:
         external_ids                map of string-string pairs
         options                     map of string-string pairs
       Connection Options:
         connections                 set of Connections
         ssl                         optional SSL

   Details:
     Status:

       This column allow a client to track the overall configuration state  of
       the system.

       nb_ic_cfg: integer
              Sequence   number   for   the   configuration.  When  a  CMS  or
              ovn-ic-nbctl updates the Interconnect  northbound  database,  it
              increments the nb_ic_cfg column in the NB_IC_Global table in the
              Interconnect  northbound  database.  when  OVN-ICs  updates  the
              southbound database to bring it up to date with  these  changes,
              one OVN-IC updates this column to the same value.

     Common Columns:

       external_ids: map of string-string pairs
              See External IDs at the beginning of this document.

       options: map of string-string pairs

     Connection Options:

       connections: set of Connections
              Database  clients  to  which  the  Open  vSwitch database server
              should connect or on which it should listen, along with  options
              for  how these connections should be configured. See the Connec‚Ä‚Äê
              tion table for more information.

       ssl: optional SSL
              Global SSL/TLS configuration.

Availability_Zone TABLE
       Each row in this table represents an Availability Zone.  Each  OVN  de‚Äê
       ployment is considered an availability zone from OVN control plane per‚Äê
       spective,  with  its  own  central  components,  such as northbound and
       southbound databases and ovn-northd daemon.

   Summary:
       name                          string (must be unique within table)
       nb_ic_cfg                     integer

   Details:
       name: string (must be unique within table)
              A name that uniquely identifies the availability zone.

       nb_ic_cfg: integer
              This column is used by the OVN-IC to inform  that  this  IC  in‚Äê
              stance is aligned with the changes in INB

Gateway TABLE
       Each  row in this table represents a interconnection gateway chassis in
       an availability zone.

   Summary:
       name                          string (must be unique within table)
       availability_zone             Availability_Zone
       hostname                      string
       Common Columns:
         external_ids                map of string-string pairs
       Encapsulation Configuration:
         encaps                      set of 1 or more Encaps

   Details:
       name: string (must be unique within table)
              The name of the gateway. See name column of the  OVN  Southbound
              database‚Äôs Chassis table.

       availability_zone: Availability_Zone
              The availability zone that the gateway belongs to.

       hostname: string
              The hostname of the gateway.

     Common Columns:

       The  overall purpose of these columns is described under Common Columns
       at the beginning of this document.

       external_ids: map of string-string pairs

     Encapsulation Configuration:

       OVN uses encapsulation to transmit logical  dataplane  packets  between
       gateways.

       encaps: set of 1 or more Encaps
              Points  to  supported  encapsulation  configurations to transmit
              logical dataplane packets to this gateway. Each entry is a Encap
              record that describes the configuration. See  encaps  column  of
              the OVN Southbound database‚Äôs Chassis table.

Encap TABLE
       The  encaps column in the Gateway table refers to rows in this table to
       identify how OVN may transmit logical dataplane packets to  this  gate‚Äê
       way.

   Summary:
       type                          string, either geneve or vxlan
       options                       map of string-string pairs
       ip                            string
       gateway_name                  string

   Details:
       type: string, either geneve or vxlan
              The  encapsulation  to  use to transmit packets to this gateway.
              See type column of the OVN Southbound database‚Äôs Encap table.

       options: map of string-string pairs
              Options for configuring the encapsulation,  which  may  be  type
              specific.  See  options  column of the OVN Southbound database‚Äôs
              Encap table.

       ip: string
              The IPv4 address of the encapsulation tunnel endpoint.

       gateway_name: string
              The name of the gateway that created this encap.

Datapath_Binding TABLE
       Each row in this table represents a logical datapath for a transit log‚Äê
       ical switch configured in the OVN Interconnection Northbound database‚Äôs
       Transit_Switch table.

   Summary:
       transit_switch                string
       type                          optional string, either transit-router or
                                     transit-switch
       nb_ic_uuid                    optional uuid
       tunnel_key                    integer, in range 1 to 16,777,215
       Common Columns:
         external_ids                map of string-string pairs

   Details:
       transit_switch: string
              The name of the transit logical switch or router that is config‚Äê
              ured in the  OVN  Interconnection  Northbound  database‚Äôs  Tran‚Ä‚Äê
              sit_Switch  or  Transit_Router  table. Note: The name of transit
              router is stored in the same column due to the backward compati‚Äê
              bility.

       type: optional string, either transit-router or transit-switch
              Can be one of transit-switch or transit-router

       nb_ic_uuid: optional uuid
              This is the UUID of  the  corresponding  northbound  IC  logical
              datapath represented by this southbound Datapath_Binding.

       tunnel_key: integer, in range 1 to 16,777,215
              The tunnel key value to which the logical datapath is bound. The
              key can be generated by any ovn-ic but the same key is shared by
              all  availability  zones  so  that  the logical datapaths can be
              peered across them. A tunnel key  for  transit  switch  datapath
              binding must be globally unique.

              For  more  information  about  the meanings of a tunnel key, see
              tunnel_key  column  of  the  OVN  Southbound  database‚Äôs   Data‚Ä‚Äê
              path_Binding table.

     Common Columns:

       The  overall purpose of these columns is described under Common Columns
       at the beginning of this document.

       external_ids: map of string-string pairs
Port_Binding TABLE
       Each row in this table binds a logical port on the transit switch to  a
       physical  gateway and a tunnel key. Each port on the transit switch be‚Äê
       longs to a specific availability zone.

   Summary:
       Core Features:
         transit_switch              string
         logical_port                string (must be unique within table)
         availability_zone           Availability_Zone
         encap                       optional weak reference to Encap
         gateway                     string
         tunnel_key                  integer, in range 1 to 32,767
         address                     string
         type                        optional     string,     either     tran‚Ä‚Äê
                                     sit-router-port or transit-switch-port
         nb_ic_uuid                  optional uuid
       Common Columns:
         external_ids                map of string-string pairs

   Details:
     Core Features:

       transit_switch: string
              The  name  of  the transit switch that the corresponding logical
              port belongs to.

       logical_port: string (must be unique within table)
              A logical port, taken from name in the OVN_Northbound database‚Äôs
              Logical_Switch_Port table. The logical port name must be  unique
              across all availability zones.

       availability_zone: Availability_Zone
              The availability zone that the port belongs to.

       encap: optional weak reference to Encap
              Points  to  supported  encapsulation  configurations to transmit
              logical dataplane packets to this gateway. Each entry is a Encap
              record that describes the configuration.

       gateway: string
              The name of the gateway that this port is physically located.

       tunnel_key: integer, in range 1 to 32,767
              A number that represents the logical port in the key (e.g.  Gen‚Äê
              eve  TLV)  field carried within tunnel protocol packets. The key
              can be generated by any ovn-ic but the same key is shared by all
              availability zones so that the packets can go through the  data‚Äê
              path pipelines of different availability zones.

              The tunnel ID must be unique within the scope of a logical data‚Äê
              path.

              For  more information about tunnel key, see tunnel_key column of
              the OVN Southbound database‚Äôs Port_Binding table.

       address: string
              The Ethernet address and IP addresses used by the  corresponding
              logical  router port peering with the transit switch port. It is
              a string combined with the value of mac column followed  by  the
              values in networks column in Logical_Router_Port table.

       type: optional string, either transit-router-port or tran‚Ä‚Äê
       sit-switch-port
              Can be one of switch-port or router-port

       nb_ic_uuid: optional uuid
              This  is  the  UUID  of  the corresponding northbound IC logical
              datapath represented by this southbound Datapath_Binding.

     Common Columns:

       external_ids: map of string-string pairs
              See External IDs at the beginning of this document.

Route TABLE
       Each row in this table represents a route advertised.

   Summary:
       Core Features:
         transit_switch              string
         availability_zone           Availability_Zone
         route_table                 string
         ip_prefix                   string
         nexthop                     string
         origin                      string, one of  connected,  loadbalancer,
                                     or static
       Common Columns:
         external_ids                map of string-string pairs

   Details:
     Core Features:

       transit_switch: string
              The  name  of the transit switch, upon which the route is adver‚Äê
              tised.

       availability_zone: Availability_Zone
              The availability zone that has advertised the route.

       route_table: string
              Route table within which this route  was  created.  Empty  value
              means <main> routing table.

              Routes for directly-connected networks will be learned to <main>
              routing  table and if Logical Routers have more than one Transit
              Switch, which interconnects them, directly-connected routes will
              be added via each transit switch port  and  configured  as  ECMP
              routes.

              Static routes within route tables will be advertised and learned
              only  if  interconnecting  transit  switch‚Äôs LRPs will have same
              value in options:route_table as NB route_table or ICSB route_ta‚Ä‚Äê
              ble value respectively.

       ip_prefix: string
              IP prefix of this route (e.g. 192.168.100.0/24).

       nexthop: string
              Nexthop IP address for this route.

       origin: string, one of connected, loadbalancer, or static
              Can be one of connected, static or loadbalancer. Routes  to  di‚Äê
              rectly-connected subnets - LRP‚Äôs CIDRs are inserted to OVN IC SB
              DB with connected value in origin. Static routes are inserted to
              OVN  IC SB DB with static value. Routes for LB VIPs are inserted
              in OVN IC SB DB with loadbalancer  value.  Next  when  route  is
              learned to another AZ NB DB by ovn-ic, route origin is synced to
              options:origin.

     Common Columns:

       external_ids: map of string-string pairs
              See External IDs at the beginning of this document.

Connection TABLE
       Configuration  for  a  database  connection to an Open vSwitch database
       (OVSDB) client.

       This table  primarily  configures  the  Open  vSwitch  database  server
       (ovsdb-server).

       The  Open vSwitch database server can initiate and maintain active con‚Äê
       nections to remote clients. It can also  listen  for  database  connec‚Äê
       tions.

   Summary:
       Core Features:
         target                      string (must be unique within table)
       Client Failure Detection and Handling:
         max_backoff                 optional integer, at least 1,000
         inactivity_probe            optional integer
       Status:
         is_connected                boolean
         status : last_error         optional string
         status : state              optional  string, one of ACTIVE, BACKOFF,
                                     CONNECTING, IDLE, or VOID
         status : sec_since_connect  optional string, containing  an  integer,
                                     at least 0
         status : sec_since_disconnect
                                     optional  string,  containing an integer,
                                     at least 0
         status : locks_held         optional string
         status : locks_waiting      optional string
         status : locks_lost         optional string
         status : n_connections      optional string, containing  an  integer,
                                     at least 2
         status : bound_port         optional string, containing an integer
       Common Columns:
         external_ids                map of string-string pairs
         other_config                map of string-string pairs

   Details:
     Core Features:

       target: string (must be unique within table)
              Connection methods for clients.

              The following connection methods are currently supported:

              ssl:host[:port]
                     The  specified  SSL/TLS port on the given host, which can
                     either be a DNS name (if built with unbound  library)  or
                     an IP address. A valid SSL/TLS configuration must be pro‚Äê
                     vided  when  this form is used, this configuration can be
                     specified via command-line options or the SSL table.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6640.

                     SSL/TLS support is an optional feature that is not always
                     built as part of OVN or Open vSwitch.

              tcp:host[:port]
                     The specified TCP port on the given host, which  can  ei‚Äê
                     ther  be a DNS name (if built with unbound library) or an
                     IP address (IPv4 or IPv6). If host is  an  IPv6  address,
                     wrap it in square brackets, e.g. tcp:[::1]:6640.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6640.

              pssl:[port][:host]
                     Listens  for  SSL/TLS  connections  on  the specified TCP
                     port. Specify 0 for port to have the kernel automatically
                     choose an available port. If host, which can either be  a
                     DNS  name  (if  built  with unbound library) or an IP ad‚Äê
                     dress, is specified, then connections are  restricted  to
                     the  resolved  or specified local IP address (either IPv4
                     or IPv6 address). If host is an  IPv6  address,  wrap  in
                     square  brackets,  e.g.  pssl:6640:[::1].  If host is not
                     specified then it listens only on IPv4 (but not IPv6) ad‚Äê
                     dresses. A valid SSL/TLS configuration must  be  provided
                     when  this form is used, this can be specified either via
                     command-line options or the SSL table.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6640.

                     SSL/TLS support is an optional feature that is not always
                     built as part of OVN or Open vSwitch.

              ptcp:[port][:host]
                     Listens for connections on the specified TCP port.  Spec‚Äê
                     ify 0 for port to have the kernel automatically choose an
                     available  port.  If host, which can either be a DNS name
                     (if built with unbound library)  or  an  IP  address,  is
                     specified,  then  connections  are  restricted to the re‚Äê
                     solved or specified local IP address (either IPv4 or IPv6
                     address). If host is an IPv6 address, wrap it  in  square
                     brackets,  e.g. ptcp:6640:[::1]. If host is not specified
                     then it listens only on IPv4 addresses.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6640.

              When multiple clients are configured, the target values must  be
              unique. Duplicate target values yield unspecified results.

     Client Failure Detection and Handling:

       max_backoff: optional integer, at least 1,000
              Maximum  number  of  milliseconds to wait between connection at‚Äê
              tempts. Default is implementation-specific.

       inactivity_probe: optional integer
              Maximum number of milliseconds of idle time on connection to the
              client before sending  an  inactivity  probe  message.  If  Open
              vSwitch  does  not communicate with the client for the specified
              number of seconds, it will send a probe. If a  response  is  not
              received  for  the  same additional amount of time, Open vSwitch
              assumes the connection has been broken and  attempts  to  recon‚Äê
              nect.  Default is implementation-specific. A value of 0 disables
              inactivity probes.

     Status:

       Key-value pair of is_connected is always updated. Other key-value pairs
       in the status columns may be updated depends on the target type.

       When target specifies a connection method that listens for inbound con‚Äê
       nections (e.g. ptcp: or punix:), both  n_connections  and  is_connected
       may also be updated while the remaining key-value pairs are omitted.

       On  the  other  hand, when target specifies an outbound connection, all
       key-value pairs may be updated, except  the  above-mentioned  two  key-
       value  pairs associated with inbound connection targets. They are omit‚Äê
       ted.

       is_connected: boolean
              true if currently connected to this client, false otherwise.

       status : last_error: optional string
              A human-readable description of the last error on the connection
              to the manager; i.e. strerror(errno). This key will  exist  only
              if an error has occurred.

       status : state: optional string, one of ACTIVE, BACKOFF, CONNECTING,
       IDLE, or VOID
              The state of the connection to the manager:

              VOID   Connection is disabled.

              BACKOFF
                     Attempting to reconnect at an increasing period.

              CONNECTING
                     Attempting to connect.

              ACTIVE Connected, remote host responsive.

              IDLE   Connection is idle. Waiting for response to keep-alive.

              These  values  may  change in the future. They are provided only
              for human consumption.

       status : sec_since_connect: optional string, containing an integer, at
       least 0
              The amount of time since this client last successfully connected
              to the database (in seconds). Value is empty if client has never
              successfully been connected.

       status : sec_since_disconnect: optional string, containing an integer,
       at least 0
              The amount of time since this client last disconnected from  the
              database  (in  seconds). Value is empty if client has never dis‚Äê
              connected.

       status : locks_held: optional string
              Space-separated list of the names of OVSDB locks that  the  con‚Äê
              nection  holds.  Omitted  if  the  connection  does not hold any
              locks.

       status : locks_waiting: optional string
              Space-separated list of the names of OVSDB locks that  the  con‚Äê
              nection  is currently waiting to acquire. Omitted if the connec‚Äê
              tion is not waiting for any locks.

       status : locks_lost: optional string
              Space-separated list of the names of OVSDB locks that  the  con‚Äê
              nection  has  had  stolen by another OVSDB client. Omitted if no
              locks have been stolen from this connection.

       status : n_connections: optional string, containing an integer, at
       least 2
              When target specifies a connection method that listens  for  in‚Äê
              bound  connections  (e.g. ptcp: or pssl:) and more than one con‚Äê
              nection is actually active, the value is the  number  of  active
              connections. Otherwise, this key-value pair is omitted.

       status : bound_port: optional string, containing an integer
              When target is ptcp: or pssl:, this is the TCP port on which the
              OVSDB  server  is  listening.  (This is particularly useful when
              target specifies a port of 0, allowing the kernel to choose  any
              available port.)

     Common Columns:

       The  overall purpose of these columns is described under Common Columns
       at the beginning of this document.

       external_ids: map of string-string pairs

       other_config: map of string-string pairs
SSL TABLE
       SSL/TLS configuration for ovn-sb database access.

   Summary:
       private_key                   string
       certificate                   string
       ca_cert                       string
       bootstrap_ca_cert             boolean
       ssl_protocols                 string
       ssl_ciphers                   string
       ssl_ciphersuites              string
       Common Columns:
         external_ids                map of string-string pairs

   Details:
       private_key: string
              Name of a PEM file  containing  the  private  key  used  as  the
              switch‚Äôs identity for SSL/TLS connections to the controller.

       certificate: string
              Name  of a PEM file containing a certificate, signed by the cer‚Äê
              tificate authority (CA) used by the controller and manager, that
              certifies the switch‚Äôs private key,  identifying  a  trustworthy
              switch.

       ca_cert: string
              Name  of a PEM file containing the CA certificate used to verify
              that the switch is connected to a trustworthy controller.

       bootstrap_ca_cert: boolean
              If set to true, then Open vSwitch will attempt to obtain the  CA
              certificate  from the controller on its first SSL/TLS connection
              and save it to the named PEM file. If it is successful, it  will
              immediately  drop the connection and reconnect, and from then on
              all SSL/TLS connections must be authenticated by  a  certificate
              signed  by the CA certificate thus obtained. This option exposes
              the SSL/TLS connection to a man-in-the-middle  attack  obtaining
              the  initial  CA  certificate.  It may still be useful for boot‚Äê
              strapping.

       ssl_protocols: string
              Range or a comma- or space-delimited list of the SSL/TLS  proto‚Äê
              cols to enable for SSL/TLS connections.

              Supported  protocols  include TLSv1.2 and TLSv1.3. Ranges can be
              provided in a form of two protocol names separated with  a  dash
              (TLSv1.2-TLSv1.3), or as a single protocol name with a plus sign
              (TLSv1.2+).  The value can be a list of protocols or exactly one
              range. The range is a preferred way of specifying protocols  and
              the  configuration  always  behaves  as if the range between the
              minimum and the maximum specified version is provided, i.e.,  if
              the  value  is  set to TLSv1.X,TLSv1.(X+2), the TLSv1.(X+1) will
              also be enabled as if it was a range. Regardless of  order,  the
              highest  protocol  supported  by  both sides will be chosen when
              making the connection.

              The default when this option is omitted is TLSv1.2+.

       ssl_ciphers: string
              List of ciphers (in OpenSSL cipher string  format)  to  be  sup‚Äê
              ported  for  SSL/TLS  connections with TLSv1.2. The default when
              this option is omitted is DEFAULT:@SECLEVEL=2.

       ssl_ciphersuites: string
              List of ciphersuites (in OpenSSL ciphersuites string format)  to
              be supported for SSL/TLS connections with TLSv1.3 and later. De‚Äê
              fault  value from OpenSSL will be used when this option is omit‚Äê
              ted.

     Common Columns:

       The overall purpose of these columns is described under Common  Columns
       at the beginning of this document.

       external_ids: map of string-string pairs
Service_Monitor TABLE
   Summary:
       type                          optional string, must be load-balancer
       ip                            string
       protocol                      optional string, either tcp or udp
       port                          integer, in range 0 to 65,535
       logical_port                  string
       src_ip                        string
       src_mac                       string
       status                        optional  string,  one of error, offline,
                                     or online
       target_availability_zone      string
       source_availability_zone      string
       options                       map of string-string pairs
       external_ids                  map of string-string pairs

   Details:
       type: optional string, must be load-balancer
              The type of the service. Only the value "load-balancer" is  sup‚Äê
              ported.

       ip: string
              IP of the service to be monitored. Copy from SBDB record.

       protocol: optional string, either tcp or udp
              The  protocol  of the service. Copy from source Southbound Data‚Äê
              base record.

       port: integer, in range 0 to 65,535
              The TCP or UDP port of the service. Copy from source  Southbound
              Database record.

       logical_port: string
              The VIF of the logical port on which the service is running. The
              ovn-controller that binds this logical_port monitors the service
              by sending periodic monitor packets. Copy from source Southbound
              Database record.

       src_ip: string
              Source  IPv4  or  IPv6  address  to  use  in the service monitor
              packet. Copy from source Southbound Database record.

       src_mac: string
              Source Ethernet address to use in the  service  monitor  packet.
              Copy from Southbound Database record.

       status: optional string, one of error, offline, or online
              The health status of the service monitor, synchronized from tar‚Äê
              get Southbound Database.

       target_availability_zone: string
              The  Availability  Zone  where the monitored service endpoint is
              located.

       source_availability_zone: string
              Availability Zone that initiated this monitor entry in ICSB  and
              retains ownership for lifecycle management.

       options: map of string-string pairs
              Same  as in Table Service_Monitor in SBDB. Copy from source SBDB
              record.

       external_ids: map of string-string pairs
              Same as in Table Service_Monitor in SBDB. Copy from source  SBDB
              record.

Open vSwitch 25.09.90           DB Schema 2.4.0                   ovn-ic-sb(5)
