ovn-sbctl(8)                      OVN Manual                      ovn-sbctl(8)

NAME
       ovn-sbctl - Open Virtual Network southbound db management utility

SYNOPSIS
       ovn-sbctl [options] command [arg...]

DESCRIPTION
       The ovn-sbctl program configures the OVN_Southbound database by provid‚Äê
       ing a high-level interface to its configuration database. See ovn-sb(5)
       for comprehensive documentation of the database schema.

       ovn-sbctl  connects  to  an  ovsdb-server  process  that  maintains  an
       OVN_Southbound  configuration  database.  Using  this  connection,   it
       queries  and possibly applies changes to the database, depending on the
       supplied commands.

       ovn-sbctl can perform any number of commands in a  single  run,  imple‚Äê
       mented as a single atomic transaction against the database.

       The  ovn-sbctl command line begins with global options (see OPTIONS be‚Äê
       low for details). The global options are followed by one or  more  com‚Äê
       mands.  Each  command  should begin with -- by itself as a command-line
       argument, to separate it from the following commands.  (The  --  before
       the first command is optional.) The command itself starts with command-
       specific  options,  if  any, followed by the command name and any argu‚Äê
       ments.

DAEMON MODE
       When it is invoked in the most ordinary way, ovn-sbctl connects  to  an
       OVSDB  server  that  hosts the southbound database, retrieves a partial
       copy of the database that is complete enough to do its  work,  sends  a
       transaction  request  to  the  server,  and  receives and processes the
       server‚Äôs reply. In common interactive use, this is  fine,  but  if  the
       database is large, the step in which ovn-sbctl retrieves a partial copy
       of  the  database  can  take a long time, which yields poor performance
       overall.

       To improve performance in such  a  case,  ovn-sbctl  offers  a  "daemon
       mode,"  in  which  the user first starts ovn-sbctl running in the back‚Äê
       ground and afterward uses the daemon to execute operations.  Over  sev‚Äê
       eral  ovn-sbctl  command  invocations, this performs better overall be‚Äê
       cause it retrieves a copy of the database only once at  the  beginning,
       not once per program run.

       Use the --detach option to start an ovn-sbctl daemon. With this option,
       ovn-sbctl  prints  the  name  of a control socket to stdout. The client
       should save this name in environment variable OVN_SB_DAEMON. Under  the
       Bourne shell this might be done like this:

             export OVN_SB_DAEMON=$(ovn-sbctl --pidfile --detach)


       When  OVN_SB_DAEMON  is  set, ovn-sbctl automatically and transparently
       uses the daemon to execute its commands.

       When the daemon is no longer needed, kill it and unset the  environment
       variable, e.g.:

             kill $(cat $OVN_RUNDIR/ovn-sbctl.pid)
             unset OVN_SB_DAEMON


       When using daemon mode, an alternative to the OVN_SB_DAEMON environment
       variable  is  to  specify a path for the Unix socket. When starting the
       ovn-sbctl daemon, specify the -u option with a full path to  the  loca‚Äê
       tion of the socket file. Here is an exmple:

             ovn-sbctl --detach -u /tmp/mysock.ctl


       Then  to connect to the running daemon, use the -u option with the full
       path to the socket created when the daemon was started:

             ovn-sbctl -u /tmp/mysock.ctl show


     Daemon Commands

       Daemon mode is internally implemented using the same mechanism used  by
       ovn-appctl.  One  may  also  use ovn-appctl directly with the following
       commands:

              run [options] command [arg...] [-- [options] command [arg...]
              ...]
                     Instructs the daemon process to run one or more ovn-sbctl
                     commands described above and reply with  the  results  of
                     running these commands. Accepts the --timeout, --dry-run,
                     --oneline,  and the options described under Table Format‚Ä‚Äê
                     ting Options in addition to the the command-specific  op‚Äê
                     tions.

              exit   Causes ovn-sbctl to gracefully terminate.

OPTIONS
       The  options  listed below affect the behavior of ovn-sbctl as a whole.
       Some individual commands also accept their own options, which are given
       just before the command name. If the first command on the command  line
       has  options,  then those options must be separated from the global op‚Äê
       tions by --.

       ovn-sbctl also accepts options from the  OVN_SBCTL_OPTIONS  environment
       variable,  in  the same format as on the command line. Options from the
       command line override those in the environment.

              --db database
                     The OVSDB database remote to contact.  If  the  OVN_SB_DB
                     environment variable is set, its value is used as the de‚Äê
                     fault. Otherwise, the default is unix:/ovnsb_db.sock, but
                     this  default is unlikely to be useful outside of single-
                     machine OVN test environments.

              --leader-only
              --no-leader-only
                   By default, or with --leader-only, when the database server
                   is a clustered database, ovn-sbctl will avoid servers other
                   than the cluster leader. This ensures that  any  data  that
                   ovn-sbctl   reads   and   reports   is   up-to-date.   With
                   --no-leader-only, ovn-sbctl will  use  any  server  in  the
                   cluster, which means that for read-only transactions it can
                   report  and act on stale data (transactions that modify the
                   database are always serialized even with --no-leader-only).
                   Refer to Understanding Cluster Consistency in ovsdb(7)  for
                   more information.

              --shuffle-remotes
              --no-shuffle-remotes
                   By  default, or with --shuffle-remotes, when there are mul‚Äê
                   tiple remotes specified  in  the  OVSDB  connection  string
                   specified  by  --db  or the OVN_SB_DB environment variable,
                   the order of the remotes will be shuffled before the client
                   tries to connect. The remotes will be shuffled only once to
                   a new order before the first connection attempt.  The  fol‚Äê
                   lowing retries, if any, will follow the same new order. The
                   default  behavior  is  to  make sure clients of a clustered
                   database can distribute evenly to all members of the  clus‚Äê
                   ter.  With  --no-shuffle-remotes,  ovn-sbctl  will  use the
                   original order specified in the connection string  to  con‚Äê
                   nect.  This  allows  user  to  specify the preferred order,
                   which is particularly useful for testing.

              --no-syslog
                   By default, ovn-sbctl logs its arguments and the details of
                   any changes that it makes to the system  log.  This  option
                   disables this logging.

                   This option is equivalent to --verbose=sbctl:syslog:warn.

              --oneline
                   Modifies the output format so that the output for each com‚Äê
                   mand  is printed on a single line. New-line characters that
                   would otherwise separate lines are  printed  as  \fB\\n\fR,
                   and  any  instances of \fB\\\fR that would otherwise appear
                   in the output are doubled. Prints a  blank  line  for  each
                   command that has no output. This option does not affect the
                   formatting  of  output  from the list or find commands; see
                   Table Formatting Options below.

              --dry-run
                   Prevents ovn-sbctl from actually modifying the database.

              -t secs
              --timeout=secs
                   By default, or with a secs of 0,  ovn-sbctl  waits  forever
                   for  a  response from the database. This option limits run‚Äê
                   time to approximately secs seconds. If the timeout expires,
                   ovn-sbctl will exit with a SIGALRM signal. (A timeout would
                   normally happen only if the database cannot  be  contacted,
                   or if the system is overloaded.)

   Daemon Options
       --pidfile[=pidfile]
              Causes a file (by default, program.pid) to be created indicating
              the  PID  of the running process. If the pidfile argument is not
              specified, or if it does not begin with /, then it is created in
              .

              If --pidfile is not specified, no pidfile is created.

       --overwrite-pidfile
              By default, when --pidfile is specified and the  specified  pid‚Äê
              file already exists and is locked by a running process, the dae‚Äê
              mon refuses to start. Specify --overwrite-pidfile to cause it to
              instead overwrite the pidfile.

              When --pidfile is not specified, this option has no effect.

       --detach
              Runs  this  program  as a background process. The process forks,
              and in the child it starts a new session,  closes  the  standard
              file descriptors (which has the side effect of disabling logging
              to  the  console), and changes its current directory to the root
              (unless --no-chdir is specified). After the child completes  its
              initialization, the parent exits.

       --monitor
              Creates  an  additional  process  to monitor this program. If it
              dies due to a signal that indicates a programming  error  (SIGA‚Ä‚Äê
              BRT, SIGALRM, SIGBUS, SIGFPE, SIGILL, SIGPIPE, SIGSEGV, SIGXCPU,
              or SIGXFSZ) then the monitor process starts a new copy of it. If
              the daemon dies or exits for another reason, the monitor process
              exits.

              This  option  is  normally used with --detach, but it also func‚Äê
              tions without it.

       --no-chdir
              By default, when --detach is specified, the daemon  changes  its
              current  working  directory  to  the root directory after it de‚Äê
              taches. Otherwise, invoking the daemon from a carelessly  chosen
              directory  would  prevent  the administrator from unmounting the
              file system that holds that directory.

              Specifying --no-chdir suppresses this behavior,  preventing  the
              daemon  from changing its current working directory. This may be
              useful for collecting core files, since it is common behavior to
              write core dumps into the current working directory and the root
              directory is not a good directory to use.

              This option has no effect when --detach is not specified.

       --no-self-confinement
              By default this daemon will try to self-confine itself  to  work
              with  files  under  well-known  directories  determined at build
              time. It is better to stick with this default behavior  and  not
              to  use  this  flag  unless some other Access Control is used to
              confine daemon. Note that in contrast to  other  access  control
              implementations  that  are  typically enforced from kernel-space
              (e.g. DAC or MAC), self-confinement is imposed  from  the  user-
              space daemon itself and hence should not be considered as a full
              confinement  strategy,  but instead should be viewed as an addi‚Äê
              tional layer of security.

       --user=user:group
              Causes this program to run as  a  different  user  specified  in
              user:group,  thus  dropping  most  of the root privileges. Short
              forms user and :group are also allowed,  with  current  user  or
              group  assumed,  respectively.  Only daemons started by the root
              user accepts this argument.

              On   Linux,   daemons   will   be   granted   CAP_IPC_LOCK   and
              CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICES  before  dropping root privileges. Daemons
              that interact with a datapath, such  as  ovs-vswitchd,  will  be
              granted  three  additional  capabilities,  namely CAP_NET_ADMIN,
              CAP_NET_BROADCAST and CAP_NET_RAW. The  capability  change  will
              apply even if the new user is root.

              On Windows, this option is not currently supported. For security
              reasons,  specifying  this  option will cause the daemon process
              not to start.

   Logging options
       -v[spec]
       --verbose=[spec]
            Sets logging levels. Without any spec,  sets  the  log  level  for
            every  module and destination to dbg. Otherwise, spec is a list of
            words separated by spaces or commas or colons, up to one from each
            category below:

            ‚Ä¢      A valid module name, as displayed by the vlog/list  command
                   on ovs-appctl(8), limits the log level change to the speci‚Äê
                   fied module.

            ‚Ä¢      syslog,  console, or file, to limit the log level change to
                   only to the system log, to the console, or to a  file,  re‚Äê
                   spectively.  (If  --detach  is specified, the daemon closes
                   its standard file descriptors, so logging  to  the  console
                   will have no effect.)

                   On  Windows  platform,  syslog is accepted as a word and is
                   only useful along with the --syslog-target option (the word
                   has no effect otherwise).

            ‚Ä¢      off, emer, err, warn, info, or  dbg,  to  control  the  log
                   level.  Messages  of  the  given severity or higher will be
                   logged, and messages of lower  severity  will  be  filtered
                   out.  off filters out all messages. See ovs-appctl(8) for a
                   definition of each log level.

            Case is not significant within spec.

            Regardless of the log levels set for file, logging to a file  will
            not take place unless --log-file is also specified (see below).

            For compatibility with older versions of OVS, any is accepted as a
            word but has no effect.

       -v
       --verbose
            Sets  the  maximum  logging  verbosity level, equivalent to --ver‚Ä‚Äê
            bose=dbg.

       -vPATTERN:destination:pattern
       --verbose=PATTERN:destination:pattern
            Sets the log pattern for destination to pattern. Refer to  ovs-ap‚Ä‚Äê
            pctl(8) for a description of the valid syntax for pattern.

       -vFACILITY:facility
       --verbose=FACILITY:facility
            Sets  the RFC5424 facility of the log message. facility can be one
            of kern, user, mail, daemon, auth, syslog, lpr, news, uucp, clock,
            ftp, ntp, audit, alert, clock2, local0,  local1,  local2,  local3,
            local4, local5, local6 or local7. If this option is not specified,
            daemon  is used as the default for the local system syslog and lo‚Ä‚Äê
            cal0 is used while sending a message to the  target  provided  via
            the --syslog-target option.

       --log-file[=file]
            Enables  logging  to a file. If file is specified, then it is used
            as the exact name for the log file. The default log file name used
            if file is omitted is /usr/local/var/log/ovn/program.log.

       --syslog-target=host:port
            Send syslog messages to UDP port on host, in addition to the  sys‚Äê
            tem  syslog.  The host must be a numerical IP address, not a host‚Äê
            name.

       --syslog-method=method
            Specify method as how syslog messages should  be  sent  to  syslog
            daemon. The following forms are supported:

            ‚Ä¢      libc,  to use the libc syslog() function. Downside of using
                   this options is that libc adds fixed prefix to  every  mes‚Äê
                   sage  before  it is actually sent to the syslog daemon over
                   /dev/log UNIX domain socket.

            ‚Ä¢      unix:file, to use a UNIX domain socket directly. It is pos‚Äê
                   sible to specify arbitrary message format with this option.
                   However, rsyslogd 8.9 and older  versions  use  hard  coded
                   parser  function anyway that limits UNIX domain socket use.
                   If you want to use  arbitrary  message  format  with  older
                   rsyslogd  versions, then use UDP socket to localhost IP ad‚Äê
                   dress instead.

            ‚Ä¢      udp:ip:port, to use a UDP socket. With this  method  it  is
                   possible  to  use  arbitrary message format also with older
                   rsyslogd. When sending syslog messages over UDP socket  ex‚Äê
                   tra precaution needs to be taken into account, for example,
                   syslog daemon needs to be configured to listen on the spec‚Äê
                   ified  UDP  port, accidental iptables rules could be inter‚Äê
                   fering with local syslog traffic and there are  some  secu‚Äê
                   rity  considerations  that apply to UDP sockets, but do not
                   apply to UNIX domain sockets.

            ‚Ä¢      null, to discard all messages logged to syslog.

            The default is taken from the OVS_SYSLOG_METHOD environment  vari‚Äê
            able; if it is unset, the default is libc.

   Table Formatting Options
       These  options control the format of output from the list and find com‚Äê
       mands.

              -f format
              --format=format
                   Sets the type of table formatting. The following  types  of
                   format are available:

                   table  2-D text tables with aligned columns.

                   list (default)
                          A  list  with one column per line and rows separated
                          by a blank line.

                   html   HTML tables.

                   csv    Comma-separated values as defined in RFC 4180.

                   json   JSON format as defined in RFC 4627. The output is  a
                          sequence  of JSON objects, each of which corresponds
                          to one table. Each JSON  object  has  the  following
                          members with the noted values:

                          caption
                                 The  table‚Äôs  caption. This member is omitted
                                 if the table has no caption.

                          headings
                                 An array with one element per  table  column.
                                 Each  array  element  is  a string giving the
                                 corresponding column‚Äôs heading.

                          data   An array with one element per table row. Each
                                 element is also an array with one element per
                                 table column. The elements  of  this  second-
                                 level array are the cells that constitute the
                                 table.  Cells  that  represent  OVSDB data or
                                 data types are expressed in  the  format  de‚Äê
                                 scribed  in  the  OVSDB  specification; other
                                 cells are simply expressed as text strings.

              -d format
              --data=format
                   Sets the formatting for cells within output  tables  unless
                   the table format is set to json, in which case json format‚Äê
                   ting  is  always  used when formatting cells. The following
                   types of format are available:

                   string (default)
                          The simple format described in the  Database  Values
                          section of ovs-vsctl(8).

                   bare   The  simple format with punctuation stripped off: []
                          and {} are omitted  around  sets,  maps,  and  empty
                          columns,  items within sets and maps are space-sepa‚Äê
                          rated, and strings are never quoted. This format may
                          be easier for scripts to parse.

                   json   The RFC 4627 JSON format as described above.

              --no-headings
                   This option suppresses the heading row that  otherwise  ap‚Äê
                   pears in the first row of table output.

              --pretty
                   By  default, JSON in output is printed as compactly as pos‚Äê
                   sible. This option causes JSON in output to be printed in a
                   more readable fashion. Members of objects and  elements  of
                   arrays are printed one per line, with indentation.

                   This option does not affect JSON in tables, which is always
                   printed compactly.

              --bare
                   Equivalent to --format=list --data=bare --no-headings.

   PKI Options
       PKI  configuration is required to use SSL/TLS for the connection to the
       database.

              -p privkey.pem
              --private-key=privkey.pem
                   Specifies a PEM file containing the  private  key  used  as
                   identity for outgoing SSL/TLS connections.

              -c cert.pem
              --certificate=cert.pem
                   Specifies  a  PEM file containing a certificate that certi‚Äê
                   fies the private key specified on -p or --private-key to be
                   trustworthy. The certificate must be signed by the certifi‚Äê
                   cate authority (CA) that the peer  in  SSL/TLS  connections
                   will use to verify it.

              -C cacert.pem
              --ca-cert=cacert.pem
                   Specifies a PEM file containing the CA certificate for ver‚Äê
                   ifying  certificates  presented  to this program by SSL/TLS
                   peers. (This may be the same certificate that SSL/TLS peers
                   use to verify the certificate specified on -c or --certifi‚Ä‚Äê
                   cate, or it may be a different one, depending  on  the  PKI
                   design in use.)

              -C none
              --ca-cert=none
                   Disables  verification of certificates presented by SSL/TLS
                   peers. This introduces a security risk,  because  it  means
                   that  certificates  cannot be verified to be those of known
                   trusted hosts.

              --ssl-server-name=servername
                   Specifies the server name to use for TLS Server Name  Indi‚Äê
                   cation  (SNI). By default, the hostname from the connection
                   string is used for SNI. This option allows  overriding  the
                   SNI hostname, which is useful when connecting through prox‚Äê
                   ies or service meshes where the connection endpoint differs
                   from the intended server name.

              --bootstrap-ca-cert=cacert.pem
                     When  cacert.pem  exists, this option has the same effect
                     as -C or --ca-cert. If it does not exist, then  the  exe‚Äê
                     cutable  will  attempt  to obtain the CA certificate from
                     the SSL/TLS peer on its first SSL/TLS connection and save
                     it to the named PEM file. If it is  successful,  it  will
                     immediately  drop  the connection and reconnect, and from
                     then on all SSL/TLS connections must be authenticated  by
                     a certificate signed by the CA certificate thus obtained.

                     This  option  exposes the SSL/TLS connection to a man-in-
                     the-middle attack obtaining the initial  CA  certificate,
                     but it may be useful for bootstrapping.

                     This  option is only useful if the SSL/TLS peer sends its
                     CA certificate as part of the SSL/TLS certificate  chain.
                     SSL/TLS  protocols  do not require the server to send the
                     CA certificate.

                     This option is mutually exclusive with -C and --ca-cert.

   Other Options
       -h
       --help
            Prints a brief help message to the console.

       -V
       --version
            Prints version information to the console.

COMMANDS
       The following sections describe the commands that ovn-sbctl supports.

   OVN_Southbound Commands
       These commands work with an OVN_Southbound database as a whole.

              init   Initializes the database, if it is empty. If the database
                     has already been initialized, this command has no effect.

              [--filter=filter-rule[,filter-rule]...] show
                     Prints a brief overview  of  the  database  contents.  If
                     --filter  is  specified,  output is filtered according to
                     the rules. Each filter-rule has the form  table-name(fil‚Äê
                     ter[|filter]...).  If table-name is omitted, filtering is
                     applied to the Chassis table by default. A row  is  shown
                     only  if its printed representation (including all refer‚Äê
                     enced rows) contains at least one of the specified filter
                     substrings.

   Chassis Commands
       These commands manipulate OVN_Southbound chassis.

              [--may-exist] chassis-add chassis encap-type encap-ip
                     Creates a new chassis  named  chassis.  encap-type  is  a
                     comma-separated  list  of  tunnel types. The chassis will
                     have one encap entry for each specified tunnel type  with
                     encap-ip as the destination IP for each.

                     Without  --may-exist, attempting to create a chassis that
                     exists is an error. With --may-exist, this  command  does
                     nothing if chassis already exists.

              [--if-exists] chassis-del chassis
                     Deletes chassis and its encaps and gateway_ports.

                     Without  --if-exists, attempting to delete a chassis that
                     does not exist is an error. With  --if-exists  attempting
                     to delete a chassis that does not exist has no effect.

   Port Binding Commands
       These commands manipulate OVN_Southbound port bindings.

              [--may-exist] lsp-bind logical-port chassis
                     Binds the logical port named logical-port to chassis.

                     Without  --may-exist,  attempting  to bind a logical port
                     that has already been bound is an error.  With  --may-ex‚Ä‚Äê
                     ist,  this  command  does nothing if logical-port has al‚Äê
                     ready been bound to a chassis.

              [--if-exists] lsp-unbind logical-port
                     Removes the binding of logical-port.

                     Without --if-exists, attempting to unbind a logical  port
                     that is not bound is an error. With --if-exists, attempt‚Äê
                     ing  to  unbind logical port that is not bound has no ef‚Äê
                     fect.

   Logical Flow Commands
       [--uuid] [--ovs[=remote]] [--stats] [--vflows] lflow-list [logical-
       datapath] [lflow...]
              List logical flows. If logical-datapath is specified, only  list
              flows  for  that  logical  datapath. The logical-datapath may be
              given as a UUID or as a datapath name  (reporting  an  error  if
              multiple datapaths have the same name).

              If  at least one lflow is given, only matching logical flows, if
              any, are listed. Each lflow may be specified as a  UUID  or  the
              first  few characters of a UUID, optionally prefixed by 0x. (Be‚Äê
              cause ovn-controller sets OpenFlow flow cookies to the first  32
              bits  of  the  corresponding  logical flow‚Äôs UUID, this makes it
              easy to look up the logical flow  that  generated  a  particular
              OpenFlow flow.)

              If --uuid is specified, the output includes the first 32 bits of
              each logical flow‚Äôs UUID. This makes it easier to find the Open‚Äê
              Flow flows that correspond to a given logical flow.

              If  --ovs  is included, ovn-sbctl attempts to obtain and display
              the OpenFlow flows that correspond to each OVN logical flow.  To
              do    so,    ovn-sbctl   connects   to   remote   (by   default,
              unix:/br-int.mgmt) over OpenFlow and retrieves the flows. If re‚Äê
              mote is specified, it must  be  an  active  OpenFlow  connection
              method  described  in ovsdb(7). Please see the discussion of the
              similar --ovs option in ovn-trace(8) for more information  about
              the OpenFlow flow output.

              By  default,  OpenFlow  flow  output includes only match and ac‚Äê
              tions. Add --stats to include all OpenFlow information, such  as
              packet and byte counters, duration, and timeouts.

              If  --vflows  is included, other southbound database records di‚Äê
              rectly used for generating OpenFlow flows are also listed.  This
              includes:  port-bindings,  mac-bindings, multicast-groups, chas‚Äê
              sis. The --ovs and --stats can also be used in conjunction  with
              --vflows.

       [--uuid] dump-flows [logical-datapath]
              Alias for lflow-list.

       count-flows [logical-datapath]
              prints numbers of logical flows per table and per datapath.

   Remote Connectivity Commands
       These commands manipulate the connections column in the SB_Global table
       and  rows  in  the Connection table. When ovsdb-server is configured to
       use the connections column for OVSDB connections, this allows  the  ad‚Äê
       ministrator to use \fBovn\-sbctl\fR to configure database connections.

              get-connection
                     Prints the configured connection(s).

              del-connection
                     Deletes the configured connection(s).

              [--inactivity-probe=msecs] set-connection target...
                     Sets  the configured manager target or targets. Use --in‚Ä‚Äê
                     activity-probe=msecs to override the default idle connec‚Äê
                     tion inactivity probe time. Use 0 to  disable  inactivity
                     probes.

   SSL/TLS Configuration Commands
       When ovsdb-server is configured to connect using SSL/TLS, the following
       parameters are required:

              private-key
                     Specifies  a PEM file containing the private key used for
                     SSL/TLS connections.

              certificate
                     Specifies a PEM file containing a certificate, signed  by
                     the  certificate  authority  (CA)  used by the connection
                     peers, that certifies  the  private  key,  identifying  a
                     trustworthy peer.

              ca-cert
                     Specifies  a  PEM file containing the CA certificate used
                     to verify that the connection peers are trustworthy.

       These SSL/TLS settings apply to all SSL/TLS  connections  made  by  the
       southbound database server.

              get-ssl
                     Prints the SSL/TLS configuration.

              del-ssl
                     Deletes the current SSL/TLS configuration.

              [--bootstrap] set-ssl private-key certificate ca-cert [ssl-pro‚Äê
              tocol-list [ssl-cipher-list [ssl-ciphersuites]]]
                     Sets the SSL/TLS configuration.

   Database Commands
       These  commands query and modify the contents of ovsdb tables. They are
       a slight abstraction of the ovsdb interface and as such they operate at
       a lower level than other ovn-sbctl commands.

       Identifying Tables, Records, and Columns

       Each of these commands has a table parameter to identify a table within
       the database. Many of them also take a record parameter that identifies
       a particular record within a table. The record  parameter  may  be  the
       UUID  for  a  record, which may be abbreviated to its first 4 (or more)
       hex digits, as long as that is unique.  Many  tables  offer  additional
       ways  to  identify  records.  Some commands also take column parameters
       that identify a particular field within the records in a table.

       For a list of tables and their columns, see ovn-sb(5) or see the  table
       listing from the --help option.

       Record names must be specified in full and with correct capitalization,
       except  that  UUIDs  may  be abbreviated to their first 4 (or more) hex
       digits, as long as that is unique within the table. Names of tables and
       columns are not case-sensitive, and - and _  are  treated  interchange‚Äê
       ably.  Unique  abbreviations  of table and column names are acceptable,
       e.g. d or dhcp is sufficient to identify the DHCP_Options table.

       Database Values

       Each column in the database accepts a fixed type of data. The currently
       defined basic types, and their representations, are:

              integer
                     A decimal integer in the range -2**63 to 2**63-1,  inclu‚Äê
                     sive.

              real   A floating-point number.

              Boolean
                     True or false, written true or false, respectively.

              string An  arbitrary  Unicode string, except that null bytes are
                     not allowed. Quotes are optional for  most  strings  that
                     begin  with  an  English letter or underscore and consist
                     only of letters, underscores, hyphens, and periods.  How‚Äê
                     ever, true and false and strings that match the syntax of
                     UUIDs  (see  below)  must be enclosed in double quotes to
                     distinguish them from  other  basic  types.  When  double
                     quotes  are  used, the syntax is that of strings in JSON,
                     e.g. backslashes may be used to  escape  special  charac‚Äê
                     ters.  The  empty string must be represented as a pair of
                     double quotes ("").

              UUID   Either a universally unique identifier in  the  style  of
                     RFC  4122,  e.g. f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6, or
                     an @name defined by a get or create  command  within  the
                     same ovs-vsctl invocation.

       Multiple values in a single column may be separated by spaces or a sin‚Äê
       gle  comma.  When  multiple  values are present, duplicates are not al‚Äê
       lowed, and order is not important. Conversely,  some  database  columns
       can have an empty set of values, represented as [], and square brackets
       may optionally enclose other non-empty sets or single values as well.

       A  few  database columns are ``maps‚Äô‚Äô of key-value pairs, where the key
       and the value are each some fixed database type. These are specified in
       the form key=value, where key and value follow the syntax for the  col‚Äê
       umn‚Äôs  key  type  and value type, respectively. When multiple pairs are
       present (separated by spaces or a comma), duplicate keys  are  not  al‚Äê
       lowed,  and  again the order is not important. Duplicate values are al‚Äê
       lowed. An empty map is represented as {}. Curly braces  may  optionally
       enclose  non-empty  maps  as  well (but use quotes to prevent the shell
       from expanding other-config={0=x,1=y} into other-config=0=x  other-con‚Ä‚Äê
       fig=1=y, which may not have the desired effect).

       Database Command Syntax

              [--if-exists] [--columns=column[,column]...] list table
              [record]...
                     Lists  the  data  in each specified record. If no records
                     are specified, lists all the records in table.

                     If --columns is specified, only the requested columns are
                     listed, in the specified order.  Otherwise,  all  columns
                     are listed, in alphabetical order by column name.

                     Without  --if-exists,  it  is  an  error if any specified
                     record does not exist. With --if-exists, the command  ig‚Äê
                     nores  any  record that does not exist, without producing
                     any output.

              [--columns=column[,column]...] find table [col‚Äê
              umn[:key]=value]...
                     Lists the data in  each  record  in  table  whose  column
                     equals  value  or, if key is specified, whose column con‚Äê
                     tains a key with the specified value. The following oper‚Äê
                     ators may be used where = is written in the  syntax  sum‚Äê
                     mary:

                     = != < > <= >=
                            Selects records in which column[:key] equals, does
                            not  equal, is less than, is greater than, is less
                            than or equal to, or is greater than or  equal  to
                            value, respectively.

                            Consider  column[:key]  and  value as sets of ele‚Äê
                            ments. Identical sets are considered equal. Other‚Äê
                            wise, if the sets have different numbers  of  ele‚Äê
                            ments,  then the set with more elements is consid‚Äê
                            ered to be larger. Otherwise, consider  a  element
                            from each set pairwise, in increasing order within
                            each  set.  The first pair that differs determines
                            the result. (For a column that contains  key-value
                            pairs, first all the keys are compared, and values
                            are  considered only if the two sets contain iden‚Äê
                            tical keys.)

                     {=} {!=}
                            Test for set equality or inequality, respectively.

                     {<=}   Selects records in which column[:key] is a  subset
                            of  value. For example, flood-vlans{<=}1,2 selects
                            records in which the  flood-vlans  column  is  the
                            empty set or contains 1 or 2 or both.

                     {<}    Selects  records in which column[:key] is a proper
                            subset of value.  For  example,  flood-vlans{<}1,2
                            selects records in which the flood-vlans column is
                            the empty set or contains 1 or 2 but not both.

                     {>=} {>}
                            Same  as  {<=}  and {<}, respectively, except that
                            the  relationship  is   reversed.   For   example,
                            flood-vlans{>=}1,2  selects  records  in which the
                            flood-vlans column contains both 1 and 2.

                     The  following  operators  are  available  only  in  Open
                     vSwitch 2.16 and later:

                     {in}   Selects  records  in  which  every element in col‚Äê
                            umn[:key] is also in value. (This is the  same  as
                            {<=}.)

                     {not-in}
                            Selects  records  in  which  every element in col‚Äê
                            umn[:key] is not in value.

                     For arithmetic operators (= != < > <= >=),  when  key  is
                     specified  but a particular record‚Äôs column does not con‚Äê
                     tain key, the record is always omitted from the  results.
                     Thus,   the   condition   other-config:mtu!=1500  matches
                     records that have a mtu key whose value is not 1500,  but
                     not those that lack an mtu key.

                     For  the  set operators, when key is specified but a par‚Äê
                     ticular record‚Äôs column does not contain key, the compar‚Äê
                     ison is done against an empty set.  Thus,  the  condition
                     other-config:mtu{!=}1500  matches records that have a mtu
                     key whose value is not 1500 and those that  lack  an  mtu
                     key.

                     Don‚Äôt  forget to escape < or > from interpretation by the
                     shell.

                     If --columns is specified, only the requested columns are
                     listed, in the specified order. Otherwise all columns are
                     listed, in alphabetical order by column name.

                     The UUIDs shown for rows created in  the  same  ovs-vsctl
                     invocation will be wrong.

              [--if-exists] [--id=@name] get table record [column[:key]]...
                     Prints  the  value  of each specified column in the given
                     record in table. For map columns, a key may optionally be
                     specified, in which case the value associated with key in
                     the column is printed, instead of the entire map.

                     Without --if-exists, it is an error if  record  does  not
                     exist  or  key  is  specified,  if  key does not exist in
                     record. With --if-exists, a missing record yields no out‚Äê
                     put and a missing key prints a blank line.

                     If @name is specified, then the UUID for  record  may  be
                     referred  to by that name later in the same ovs-vsctl in‚Äê
                     vocation in contexts where a UUID is expected.

                     Both --id and the column arguments are optional, but usu‚Äê
                     ally at least one or the other should  be  specified.  If
                     both are omitted, then get has no effect except to verify
                     that record exists in table.

                     --id and --if-exists cannot be used together.

              [--if-exists] set table record column[:key]=value...
                     Sets  the  value  of  each  specified column in the given
                     record in table to value. For map columns, a key may  op‚Äê
                     tionally be specified, in which case the value associated
                     with key in that column is changed (or added, if none ex‚Äê
                     ists), instead of the entire map.

                     Without  --if-exists,  it  is an error if record does not
                     exist. With --if-exists, this  command  does  nothing  if
                     record does not exist.

              [--if-exists] add table record column [key=]value...
                     Adds  the  specified value or key-value pair to column in
                     record in table. If column is a  map,  then  key  is  re‚Äê
                     quired, otherwise it is prohibited. If key already exists
                     in  a  map column, then the current value is not replaced
                     (use the set command to replace an existing value).

                     Without --if-exists, it is an error if  record  does  not
                     exist.  With  --if-exists,  this  command does nothing if
                     record does not exist.

              [--if-exists] remove table record column value...

                     [--if-exists] remove table record column key...

                     [--if-exists] remove  table  record  column  key=value...
                     Removes the specified values or key-value pairs from col‚Äê
                     umn in record in table. The first form applies to columns
                     that  are  not maps: each specified value is removed from
                     the column. The second  and  third  forms  apply  to  map
                     columns:  if  only a key is specified, then any key-value
                     pair with the given key is  removed,  regardless  of  its
                     value; if a value is given then a pair is removed only if
                     both key and value match.

                     It  is  not  an  error if the column does not contain the
                     specified key or value or pair.

                     Without --if-exists, it is an error if  record  does  not
                     exist.  With  --if-exists,  this  command does nothing if
                     record does not exist.

              [--if-exists] clear table record column...
                     Sets each column in record in table to the empty  set  or
                     empty  map,  as appropriate. This command applies only to
                     columns that are allowed to be empty.

                     Without --if-exists, it is an error if  record  does  not
                     exist.  With  --if-exists,  this  command does nothing if
                     record does not exist.

              [--id=(@name|uuid)] create table column[:key]=value...
                     Creates a new record in table and sets the initial values
                     of each column. Columns not explicitly set  will  receive
                     their default values. Outputs the UUID of the new row.

                     If  @name is specified, then the UUID for the new row may
                     be referred to by that name elsewhere in the  same  \*(PN
                     invocation  in  contexts  where  a UUID is expected. Such
                     references may precede or follow the create command.

                     If a valid uuid is specified, then it is used as the UUID
                     of the new row.

                     Caution (ovs-vsctl as example)
                            Records in the Open vSwitch database are  signifi‚Äê
                            cant only when they can be reached directly or in‚Äê
                            directly  from  the Open_vSwitch table. Except for
                            records in the QoS or Queue tables,  records  that
                            are  not reachable from the Open_vSwitch table are
                            automatically  deleted  from  the  database.  This
                            deletion  happens immediately, without waiting for
                            additional ovs-vsctl commands  or  other  database
                            activity. Thus, a create command must generally be
                            accompanied by additional commands within the same
                            ovs-vsctl  invocation to add a chain of references
                            to the newly created  record  from  the  top-level
                            Open_vSwitch  record.  The  EXAMPLES section gives
                            some examples that show how to do this.

              [--if-exists] destroy table record...
                     Deletes each specified record from table. Unless --if-ex‚Ä‚Äê
                     ists is specified, each records must exist.

              --all destroy table
                     Deletes all records from the table.

                     Caution (ovs-vsctl as example)
                            The destroy command is only useful for records  in
                            the  QoS  or Queue tables. Records in other tables
                            are automatically deleted from the  database  when
                            they  become unreachable from the Open_vSwitch ta‚Äê
                            ble. This means that deleting the  last  reference
                            to  a record is sufficient for deleting the record
                            itself. For records in these  tables,  destroy  is
                            silently  ignored.  See the EXAMPLES section below
                            for more information.

              wait-until table record [column[:key]=value]...
                     Waits until table contains a record  named  record  whose
                     column equals value or, if key is specified, whose column
                     contains  a  key  with  the specified value. This command
                     supports the same operators and semantics  described  for
                     the find command above.

                     If  no  column[:key]=value arguments are given, this com‚Äê
                     mand waits only until record exists.  If  more  than  one
                     such  argument  is  given, the command waits until all of
                     them are satisfied.

                     Caution (ovs-vsctl as example)
                            Usually wait-until should be placed at the  begin‚Äê
                            ning  of a set of ovs-vsctl commands. For example,
                            wait-until bridge br0  --  get  bridge  br0  data‚Ä‚Äê
                            path_id waits until a bridge named br0 is created,
                            then  prints  its  datapath_id column, whereas get
                            bridge br0 datapath_id --  wait-until  bridge  br0
                            will  abort  if  no  bridge  named br0 exists when
                            ovs-vsctl initially connects to the database.

                     Consider specifying --timeout=0 along with  --wait-until,
                     to  prevent ovs-vsctl from terminating after waiting only
                     at most 5 seconds.

              comment [arg]...
                     This command has no effect on behavior, but any  database
                     log  record  created by the command will include the com‚Äê
                     mand and its arguments.

ENVIRONMENT
       OVN_SB_DAEMON
              If set, this should name the Unix domain socket for an ovn-sbctl
              server process. See Daemon Mode, above, for more information.

       OVN_SBCTL_OPTIONS
              If set, a set of options for ovn-sbctl to  apply  automatically,
              in the same form as on the command line.

       OVN_SB_DB
              If  set, the default database to contact when the --db option is
              not used.

EXIT STATUS
       0      Successful program execution.

       1      Usage, syntax, or network error.

SEE ALSO
       ovn-sb(5), ovn-appctl(8).

OVN 25.09.90                       ovn-sbctl                      ovn-sbctl(8)
